<h3 class="clause-heading">Remarks â€“ Recommended Use of SACC Item</h3><section class="remarks group-sacc-remarks field-group-section">
 No remarks.
</section>
<h3 class="clause-heading">Legal text for SACC item</h3><pre>The Carrier shall obtain and keep in force, during the term of the Standing 
Offer and any renewal thereof, not less than the minimum insurance coverage 
as set forth in the Air Transportation Regulations Sections 6, 7 and 8.    
Such insurance is to be effected in the joint names of Her Majesty and the 
Carrier, together with the inclusion of the Cross Liability Clause.    In 
the event that additional premiums are incurred by a Carrier to comply with 
the Cross Liability provisions above, the inclusion of the following 
Severability of Interests Clause will be acceptable:    "The insurance 
afforded applies separately to each insured against whom the claim is made 
or suit is brought, except with respect to the limit of the insurer's 
liability."    In no event shall Her Majesty be liable for the loss of, or 
damage to, the Carrier's equipment or property or any part thereof, except 
to the extent caused by or due to Her Majesty.    The foregoing provisions 
shall not limit the insurance coverage required by municipal, provincial or 
federal law.    The Carrier shall provide Her Majesty with a certificate of 
insurance from the Insurer, stating that the required insurance is in 
effect, that Her Majesty has been named as an additional insured with the 
Cross Liability Clause or the required Severability of Interests Clause to 
apply, and that the Department of Supply and Services shall be given at 
least 15 days prior written notice of any policy cancellation or of any 
change in the amount of coverage or type of insurance specified.    Where 
any suit is instituted against Her Majesty which the Insurer would, but for 
this clause, have the right to defend on behalf of Her Majesty as a 
co-insured under this contract for insurance, the Insured shall promptly 
contact the Attorney General of Canada for instructions by sending written 
notice to:    The Director   Civil Litigation Department of Justice   Kent 
and Wellington Streets   Ottawa, Ontario   K1A 0H8 


</pre>