<pre>(a)  The Contractor shall provide the special production tooling required 
to perform the Work under this Contract as listed in the Schedule attached 
to acceptance of this Contract, which Canada shall pay for on the basis of 
the Contractor's actual cost determined in accordance with Contract Cost 
Principles, DSS-MAS 1031-2, and subject to Government audit.  Where the 
Contractor can submit only an incomplete Schedule of the tooling with 
acceptance of the Contract, the Contractor shall provide a complete 
Schedule as soon as possible. All items of "Special Production Tooling" are 
subject to approval by the Minister Department before final payment is made.

(b)  In no event shall Canada pay the Contractor for tooling a total amount 
that exceeds $_____, unless and until Canada authorizes additional 
commitments.

(c)  The Contractor shall take reasonable and proper care of the tooling 
while in its custody.

(d)  Title to the tooling and any replacement shall vest in Canada upon the 
acquisition by the Contractor and shall remain so vested at all times.

(e)  The Contractor shall give written notice to _____, a least sixty (60) 
days before the date when the tooling will no longer be required for use in 
the performance of any contract with Canada.  If no disposal instructions 
are received from the Minister, the Contractor shall act as custodian of 
the tooling at no direct cost to Canada for a period of _____ days from the 
date on which the Contract was completed.  However, if inhibiting, 
packaging and crating charges are involved, these will be the subject of a 
new contract with this Department.

(f)  Each item of special production tooling shall be identified as Crown 
property by affixing a plate (available upon request from) _____, by 
etching or by stamping.  Such plate or marking shall include reference to 
the DSS File Number and Contract Number as well as a tool number to 
identify the individual item.

(g)  As a prerequisite to final payment for the tooling, the Contractor 
shall submit an inventory of the tooling verified by Statutory Declaration 
made before a Notary Public or Commissioner for Oaths on form DSS-MAS 1477, 
Statutory Declaration, to be obtained from _____ .  The inventory shall 
contain the following particulars;

       1.  The Contractor's name;

       2.  Date and reference numbers of the Contract;

       3.  Supplies or components in the manufacture of which the tooling 
       is used;
 
       4.  Quantity, tool or item number (reference paragraph (f) above), 
       production part number to which the tool relates and a brief 
       description of the tool;

       5.  Price of each item of special production tooling, where 
       available, and the total amount.

(h)  The original and two (2) copies of the tooling inventory (verified as 
   provided above) are to be forwarded to the Assets Management Section, 
   AMES Directorate, Department of Supply and Services, Hull, Quebec, K1A 
   0S5.
</pre>