<pre><strong>SELECT PARAGRAPH AS APPLICABLE:</strong>

<strong>Government Available Material</strong>:

The Contractor shall be required to purchase within seven (7) calendar days 
following the date of award sufficient materials from the Royal Canadian 
Mounted Police (RCMP) to make up pre-production sample(s) and submit same 
for approval prior to commencing production.

<strong>Pre-Production Samples</strong>:

 ***One or two*** pre-production samples, accompanied by the sealed sample 
where applicable, shall be forwarded to the Technical Authority for 
acceptance within _____ calendar days from notification of award of 
Contract ***and receipt of Government Supplied Material*** ***and receipt 
of Tooling***.

<strong>Production Samples</strong>:

A production sample two (2) metres in length, full width, shall be taken 
from the first production run and shall be forwarded to the Technical 
Authority, accompanied by the sealed sample(s), for acceptance within _____ 
calendar days from notification of award of Contract.

If the first sample(s) is/are rejected, second sample(s) shall be submitted 
within _____ calendar days of notification of requirement.

The Contractor shall carry out all required inspection and tests to verify 
conformance to the technical requirements of the Contract.

The sample(s), and a copy of the inspection and test report(s), shall be 
forwarded to the Technical Authority, transportation charges prepaid, and 
without charge to Canada.

The Technical Authority shall notify the Contractor, in writing, of the 
conditional acceptance, acceptance or rejection of the sample(s). The 
notice of conditional acceptance or acceptance shall not relieve the 
Contractor from complying with all requirements of the specification(s) and 
all other terms of the Contract.

The Contractor shall not commence or continue with production of the items 
under this contract and, if applicable, shall not make any deliveries in 
response to any call-ups (DSS-MAS 942), until the Contractor has received 
notification from the Technical Authority that the sample(s) are acceptable. 
The production of the Contract balance prior to sample acceptance is at the 
sole risk of the Contractor. 
Where the second sample(s) submitted by the Contractor is/are rejected by 
the Technical Authority for failing to meet the contract requirements, the 
Contract may be terminated by the Minister for the default of the 
Contractor. Any such termination shall be pursuant to and governed by 
Section 26, Default by the Contractor, of General Conditions DSS-MAS 9601.

The Contractor shall contact the Technical Authority for direction prior to 
proceeding with this requirement. Sample(s) may not be required if the 
Contractor is currently in production. The request for waiver of samples 
must be made by the Contractor in writing. The waiving of this requirement 
will be at the discretion of the Technical Authority and shall be in 
writing.

</pre>