<pre>Title to the equipment/furnishings charged against this contract shall vest 
in Her Majesty upon payment of invoiced amounts and shall remain so vested 
at all times.     For each item of equipment/furnishings that is purchased, 
the Contractor is to record the name, manufacturer, model number, serial 
number, optional equipment, supplier and price and forward this information 
to the Project Authority.     The Contractor shall label all equipment/
furnishings as being the property of Her Majesty the Queen in right of 
Canada.     Notwithstanding the fact that the equipment/furnishings under 
this contract become vested in Her Majesty, the equipment/furnishings shall 
remain within the custody and control of the Contractor until such time as 
the Project Authority provides instructions for its delivery. During this 
period of time, the Contractor shall take reasonable and proper care of the 
equipment/furnishings.     gr29         BIEN DE LA COURONNE:    Les titre 
de propriété relatifs à l'équipement acquis sous ce ontrat sont dévolu à Sa 
Majesté sur paiement du montant factué et demeure ainsi dévolu et tout 
temps.    Pour chaque pièce d'équipement utilisé par l'entrepreneur, ce 
dernier doit tenir un registre du type d'équipement, nom du manufacturier, 
numéro de série, option incluse, nom du fournisseur ainsi que le prix. 
Cette information doit être envoyée par l'entrepreneur au chef de projet.    
L'entrepreneur doit étiqueter tout équipement que ce dernier est la 
propriété de Sa Majesté la Reine du Canada.    Nonobstant le fait que les 
titres de propriété des équipements acquis dans le cadre de ce contrat sont 
dévolus à Sa Majesté, les équipements doivent demeurer sous la garde et le 
contrôle de l'entrepreneur jusqu'à ce que des isntructions de livraisons 
soient transmises par le chef de projet. Durant cette période 
l'entrepreneur doit prendre un soin raisonnable et approprié de ces 
équipements.    gr29   


</pre>