<pre>The Contractor represents and warrants that the certification  of Canadian 
Content submitted with its bid is accurate and complete, and that the goods 
and/or services being offered to Canada will contain at least that level of 
goods and services of Canadian origin. The Contractor acknowledges that the 
Minister has relied upon such representation and warranty to enter into 
this Contract. Such representation and warranty may be verified in such 
manner as the Minister may reasonably require.

The Contractor acknowledges that in the event of a breach of such covenant, 
the Minister shall have the right to treat the Contract as being in default 
in accordance with the default provisions of the Contract.

The Contractor shall keep proper records and documentation relating to the 
determination of the Canadian Content of the goods and/or services provided 
to Canada. The Contractor shall not, without the prior written consent of 
the Minister, dispose of any such records or documentation until the 
expiration of six (6) years after final payment of this Contract, or until 
settlement of all outstanding claims and disputes, whichever is later. All 
such records and documentation shall at all times during the aforementioned 
retention period be open to audit, inspection and examination by the 
authorized representatives of the Minister, who may make copies and take 
extracts thereof. The Contractor shall provide all facilities  for such 
audits, inspections and examinations, and shall furnish all such 
information as the representatives of the Minister may from time to time 
require with respect to such records and documentation.

Nothing in this clause shall be interpreted as limiting the rights and 
   remedies which Canada or the Minister may otherwise have in relation to 
   or pursuant to this Contract.  
</pre>