<h3 class="clause-heading">Remarks â€“ Recommended Use of SACC Item</h3><section class="remarks group-sacc-remarks field-group-section">
<pre>Use the following clause in contracts which are not for research and development 
or for professional services, and which are not in the design phases of a 
multiphase procurement of a major system, and in respect of which the Long Form, 
DSS-MAS 9601, is not being used. This clause is to be used where the contractor 
is to own any intellectual property that may arise as a result of the 
performance of the contract.   NOTE: This clause must be used in conjunction 
with clause K3400D.   

</pre>
</section>
<h3 class="clause-heading">Legal text for SACC item</h3><pre>(1)  In the Contract   

       (a)  "Background Intellectual Property" means all Technical 
       Information that is not Foreground Intellectual Property and that is 
       proprietary to the Contractor, its subcontractors or any other 
       supplier of the Contractor;   

       (b)  "Foreground Intellectual Property" means any Invention first 
       conceived, developed or reduced to practice as part of the Work 
       under the Contract and all Technical Information collected, 
       developed or produced as part of the Work under the Contract;   

       (c)  "Invention" means any new and useful art, process, methodology, 
       technique, machine, manufacture or composition of matter, or any new 
       and useful improvement of any art, process, methodology, technique, 
       machine, manufacture or composition of matter, whether or not 
       patentable;   

       (d)  "Other Contractor" means any contractor to which Canada 
       sublicenses the use of Foreground Intellectual Property for purposes 
       of carrying out a contract with Canada; and   

       (e)  "Technical Information" means all information of a scientific 
       or technical nature relating to the Work, whether oral or recorded 
       in any form or medium and whether or not copyrightable, including 
       but not limited to Inventions, designs, methods, processes, 
       techniques, know-how, reports, drawings, plans, specifications, 
       photographs, models, prototypes, patterns, samples, schematics, 
       experimental or test data, and computer software, data files, and 
       documentation.

(2) The Contractor shall promptly report and fully disclose to the Minister 
the conception, development, or reduction to practice of any Invention that 
could be Foreground Intellectual Property, and shall report and fully 
disclose to the Minister all other Technical Information at the completion 
of the Work or at such other time as the Minister or the Contract may 
require.

(3) Except as otherwise specified in the Contract, and provided that the 
Contractor discloses the Technical Information under subsection (2), 
copyright, patent and all other proprietary rights to all Foreground 
Intellectual Property shall, immediately upon its conception, development, 
reduction to practice or production, vest in and remain the property of the 
Contractor.  Until the Contractor discloses Foreground Intellectual 
Property in accordance with subsection (2), it shall not, without the prior 
written permission of the Minister, assign or otherwise transfer title to 
the Foreground Intellectual Property or license or otherwise authorize the 
use of the intellectual property by any person.  If the Contractor fails to 
disclose any Foreground Intellectual Property in accordance with subsection 
(2), or if the Contract is terminated by Canada under the provisions of the 
Contract relating to termination on the grounds of default by the 
Contractor, the Minister may direct that title to all or part of the 
Foreground Intellectual Property shall vest in and remain the property of 
Canada, and the Contractor shall, at its own expense, execute such 
conveyances or other documents relating to title as the minister for whose 
department or agency the Work is being carried out may require, and the 
Contractor shall, at Canada's expense, afford that minister all reasonable 
assistance in the prosecution of any patent application or registration of 
copyright or an industrial design, including assistance of the inventor in 
the case of Inventions.

(4) Notwithstanding the Contractor's ownership of the Foreground 
Intellectual Property in any prototype or any custom machinery, device, 
system or equipment delivered under the Contract, Canada shall have 
unrestricted ownership rights in the thing delivered, including the right 
to sell it and to make it available for public use whether for a fee or 
otherwise.

(5) The Contractor hereby grants to Canada a non-exclusive, irrevocable, 
world-wide, fully paid and royalty-free licence to use any Foreground 
Intellectual Property and such of the Background Intellectual Property 
incorporated into the Work or necessary for the performance of the Work as 
may be required solely for the following purposes:   

       (a)  for the operation, maintenance, repair or overhaul of the Work;   

       (b)  for the purpose of manufacturing spare parts for maintenance, 
       repair or overhaul of the Work by Canada if those parts are not 
       reasonably available to enable timely maintenance, repair or 
       overhaul; or   

       (c)  for the further development of or alteration of the Work,

including the right to sublicence the use of the Foreground or Background 
Intellectual Property to an Other Contractor to be used solely in the 
carrying out of a contract let by Canada for a purpose set out in paragraph 
(a), (b) or (c).  Any sublicence given by Canada to an Other Contractor 
shall require the Other Contractor to maintain the confidentiality of the 
Foreground or Background Intellectual Property.

(6) Wherever practical, the Contractor shall mark or identify any 
Foreground or Background Intellectual Property delivered to Canada under 
this section as "Property of (Contractor name); permitted Government uses 
defined under DSS Contract No. (fill in contract number)", and Canada shall 
not be liable for any unauthorized use or disclosure of Foreground or 
Background Intellectual Property that could have been so marked or 
identified and was not.
 
(7) In the event that Canada wishes to sublicence the use of the Foreground 
Intellectual Property to an Other Contractor for use in performing a 
contract with Canada, in addition to the sublicence granted by Canada to 
the Other Contractor, Canada shall require the Other Contractor to enter 
into a separate licence agreement with the Contractor, but the Contractor 
agrees that no such licence agreement shall be required if, in the opinion 
of the Minister,   

       (a)  the terms of such a licence demanded by the Contractor are 
       inconsistent with Canada's rights under this Contract;   
       (b)  the negotiation of the licence agreement is being unreasonably 
       delayed or prolonged by the Contractor; or   

       (c)  the urgency of the work under the contract makes such a licence 
       agreement impractical.

No such licence agreement shall require compensation to the Contractor for 
the use of the intellectual property.

(8) Canada is prepared to license the use by the Contractor of intellectual 
property owned by Canada and furnished to the Contractor under this 
Contract for purposes of the commercial exploitation or further development 
by the Contractor of the Foreground Intellectual Property, on terms and 
conditions, which may include the payment of compensation, to be negotiated 
between the Contractor and the minister for whose department or agency the 
Work is being carried out.

(9) The Contractor shall not, without the written permission of the 
Minister, incorporate into the Work any Background Intellectual Property 
unless it owns or has procured the rights necessary to provide the licence 
to Canada under subsection (5).  The Contractor shall, in each disclosure 
under subsection (2), indicate the name of any subcontractor at any tier in 
which title to any of the Foreground Intellectual Property will vest.

(10) In any transfer of title to or assignment of the Foreground 
Intellectual Property or any licence for the use of the Foreground 
Intellectual Property, the Contractor shall impose on the other party any 
obligations to Canada imposed under this Contract and any restrictions on 
the use or disposition of the Foreground Intellectual Property contained in 
this Contract, including the obligation to impose the same obligations and 
restrictions on any subsequent transferee, assignee or licensee, so that 
such obligations and restrictions will continue to apply to the current 
holder of those rights to the Foreground Intellectual Property.  The 
Contractor agrees that neither the Contractor nor any such current holder 
of those rights to the Foreground Intellectual Property shall have the 
right to collect a royalty or other compensation on the use of the 
Foreground Intellectual Property for purposes of a contract or other 
arrangement with Canada.  The Contractor or other current holder of rights 
to the Foreground Intellectual Property shall promptly notify Canada of the 
name, address and other pertinent information in regard to any such 
transferee, assignee or licensee.

(11) Before and after final payment to the Contractor, the Minister shall 
have the right to examine all records and supporting data of the Contractor 
which the Minister reasonably deems pertinent to the discovery or 
identification of Technical Information to which subsection (2) applies. 

(12) The Contractor shall, upon the written request of the Minister, 
furnish all logistical support and life-cycle support data relating to the 
Work, including lists of suppliers, supplier part numbers and related 
drawings, and shall do so at the minimum extra cost to Canada. 

</pre>