<h3 class="clause-heading">Remarks â€“ Recommended Use of SACC Item</h3><section class="remarks group-sacc-remarks field-group-section">
 No remarks.
</section>
<h3 class="clause-heading">Legal text for SACC item</h3><pre><strong>1.     Bidder's Responsibility</strong><strong></strong>

The bidder has the sole responsibility for the timely receipt of a bid by 
the Department of Supply and Services (DSS).  The bidder cannot transfer 
such responsibility to the government.

Bids are to be directed only to the bid receiving address specified in the 
bid solicitation document.  DSS will not assume responsibility for bids 
directed to any other location by any other method of communication than 
those described in this notice.

<strong>2.     Late Bids</strong><strong></strong>

It is DSS policy to return, unopened, bids received after the stipulated 
bid closing date and time, unless they qualify under the Delayed Bid Policy 
as described below.

<strong>3.     Delayed Bids</strong><strong></strong>

A bid received after the closing date and time but before the contract 
award date may be considered provided the delay can be proven to have been 
due solely to a delay in delivery that can be attributed to the Canada Post 
Corporation (CPC) (or national equivalent of a foreign country) or to 
incorrect handling by DSS.  The only piece of evidence relating to a delay 
in the CPC system that is acceptable to DSS is a CPC cancellation date 
stamp that clearly indicates that the bid was mailed prior to the bid 
closing date.

Example: If the bid closing date was May 15, 1993, then the CPC 
cancellation date stamp should read no later than May 14, 1993, to be 
accepted.

Please request the postal employee to date-stamp your envelope.

For electronically transmitted responses, only the date and the time of 
receipt recorded by Communications Centre at the numbers stated below will 
be accepted as evidence of a delayed bid.

<strong>4.     Postage Meters</strong><strong></strong>

Postage meter imprints, whether imprinted by the supplier, the Canada Post 
Corporation or the postal authority outside Canada, are not acceptable as 
proof of timely mailing.  It should be noted that CPC does not normally 
apply a cancellation date stamp to metered mail; this is usually done only 
when postage stamps are used.

<strong>5.     Electronically Transmitted Responses: Telex, Facsimile and 
       Commercial Telegram</strong><strong></strong>

If you are in doubt that your bid will be received on time at the specific 
location designated for the receipt of the bid, you may use a telex, a 
facsimile or a commercial telegram, unless otherwise instructed in the bid 
solicitation package.<strong>*</strong>

The only acceptable telex and facsimile numbers for responses to bid 
solicitations issued by DSS headquarters directorates are:

              Telex Number:        DSS Hull   053-3703

              Facsimile Numbers:   (819) 997-9776
                                   (819) 994-0080


Telex and facsimile numbers for responses to solicitations issued by DSS 
regional offices are identified on the front page of the bid solicitation 
document.
 
Bids submitted by electronic means must contain:

-      the bid reference number;

-      the closing date and time;

-      sufficient data to allow evaluation, such as unit prices, sales tax, 
       duty, cash discount terms, technical data (where applicable) and any 
       deviation(s) from the bid document.

<strong>*      </strong>Due to the volume of technical material required for some bids, 
       certain solicitation documents may specify that electronic 
       submissions are not acceptable (e.g. science solicitations).

Bids submitted by facsimile can contain only the front page of the bid and 
those pages which contain the above-mentioned information.

A response sent by electronic means must be confirmed immediately by the 
bidder, in writing, and must conform to the instructions stipulated in the 
Bid Solicitation Package.

Only incorrect handling by DSS will excuse the delay of electronically 
transmitted responses.  Misrouting, traffic volume, weather disturbances, 
or any other causes for the late receipt of electronically submitted 
responses are not acceptable to DSS.

<strong>6.     Customs Clearance</strong><strong></strong>

It is the responsibility of the bidder to allow sufficient time to obtain 
customs clearance, where required, before the scheduled bid closing date 
and time.  Delays related to the obtaining of customs clearance cannot be 
construed as "undue delay in the mail" and will not be accepted under the 
Delayed Bid Policy.

<strong>7.     For further information, please contact:</strong><strong></strong>

              Supply and Services Canada
              Statistical Information and Data Management Branch
              Bid Receiving Unit
              11 Laurier Street, Place du Portage, Phase III
              Main Lobby OA1
              Hull, Quebec
              K1A 1C9

              Telephone:  (819) 956-3370, Bid Receiving Information 

             <strong><strong> OR
</strong></strong>
              The DSS regional office indicated on the front page of the 
              bid solicitation document.

</pre>