<button class="print-clause btn btn-default mrgn-tp-sm mrgn-rght-sm pull-right"><span class="glyphicon glyphicon-print"></span><span class="wb-inv">Print</span></button><div>
<h3 class="clause-heading">Remarks â€“ Recommended Use of SACC Item</h3><section class="remarks group-sacc-remarks field-group-section">
 No remarks.
</section>
<h3 class="clause-heading">Legal text for SACC item</h3><pre><strong>A.     INSTRUCTIONS</strong><strong></strong>

<strong>1.     Method of Supply</strong>

One method of supply used by the Department of Supply and Services (DSS) to 
satisfy the requirements of Identified Users is to arrange with Offerors to 
submit a Standing Offer to provide goods, services, or both, to the federal 
government during a specified period. The Identified Users to be served are 
then delegated purchasing authority by DSS and may access the source of 
supply directly, as and when requested, by issuing call-ups detailing the 
exact quantities of goods or level of services they wish to order from the 
Offeror at a particular time during the effective period of the Offeror's 
offer and in accordance with the predetermined conditions.

<strong>2.     Purpose of the Standing Offer</strong>

This method of supply is particularly useful in acquiring frequently 
ordered commercially and non-commercially available goods or services when 
the total volume or value of goods or level of services that may be 
required by one or more Identified Users can be estimated beforehand, but 
it is not possible at the outset to identify the exact requirements for any 
given user at a specific time in the future.

Inasmuch as DSS, during the period stated in the Request for a Standing 
Offer (RFSO), foresees a potential need for goods or services, or both, the 
Offeror is hereby invited to provide DSS with a Standing Offer.

<strong>3.     Quantity</strong>

The quantity of goods, level of services and estimated expenditure 
specified in the RFSO are only an approximation of requirements given in 
good faith.  The making of a Standing Offer by the Offeror shall not 
constitute an agreement by Canada or any Identified User to order any or 
all of the said goods or services. The Identified Users may make one or 
several call-ups against a Standing Offer.

<strong>4.     DSS Obligation</strong>

A request does not commit DSS to authorize the utilization of a Standing 
Offer or to pay any cost incurred in the submission of offers, or cost 
incurred in making necessary studies for the preparation thereof, or to 
procure or contract for any services or supplies.  DSS reserves the right 
to reject or authorize for utilization any offer in whole or in part, with 
or without further discussion or negotiation.

<strong>5.     Process</strong>

The Standing Offer is normally processed as follows:

(a)    An RFSO is obtained by Offerors (suppliers) through the Open Bidding 
       Service (OBS).

(b)    Offerors then complete the request and return it to DSS as a 
       proposed Standing Offer.

(c)    DSS issues a Standing Offer and Call-up Authority (SOCA) to 
       successful Offerors and Identified Users (client departments or 
       agencies) authorized to make call-ups directly.

<strong>6.     Submission of Offers</strong>

(1)    It is the Offeror's responsibility to:

       (a)    return a signed original of the RFSO, duly completed, IN THE 
              FORMAT REQUESTED;

       (b)    direct its offer ONLY to the DSS receiving address specified;

       (c)    ensure that the Offeror's name, the DSS file number, and 
              solicitation closing date and time are clearly visible; 
       (d)    provide a comprehensive and sufficiently detailed offer, 
              including all requested pricing details, that will permit a 
              complete evaluation in accordance with the criteria set out 
              in the solicitation.

<strong>       TIMELY RECEIPT AND CORRECT DIRECTION OF OFFERS IS THE SOLE 
       RESPONSIBILITY OF THE OFFEROR. DSS WILL NOT ASSUME<strong><strong> OR </strong></strong>HAVE 
       TRANSFERRED TO IT THOSE RESPONSIBILITIES.</strong>

(2)    The evaluation of proposed Standing Offers may result in 
       authorization to utilize one or more Standing Offers in whole or in 
       part, taking into consideration the lowest price per item and/or 
       destination or group of items and/or destinations or on a lowest 
       aggregate price basis. The lowest or any proposed Standing Offer 
       will not necessarily be authorized.  In case of error in the 
       extension of prices, the unit price will govern. A SOCA document may 
       be issued against any proposed Standing Offer up to sixty (60) days 
       after the closing date of the RFSO, unless otherwise indicated in 
       the RFSO.

(3)    The Standing Offer should completely and thoroughly address each 
       element of the requirement as enumerated in the RFSO. It is also 
       essential that the elements contained in the offer be stated in a 
       clear and concise manner.

<strong>7.     Responses Transmitted by Telex, Facsimile or Commercial Telegram</strong>

(1)    If you are in doubt that your offer will be received on time at the 
       specific location designated for the receipt of the offer, you may 
       use a telex, a facsimile or a commercial telegram, unless otherwise 
       instructed in the RFSO.

       NOTE:  Due to the volume of technical material required for some 
              offers, certain RFSO's may specify that submissions by telex, 
              facsimile or commercial telegram are not acceptable (e.g. 
              science solicitations).

(2)    Unless otherwise instructed in the RFSO, the only acceptable telex 
       and/or facsimile numbers for responses to RFSO's issued by DSS 
       headquarters sectors are:

       Telex Number:        DSS Hull  053-3703
       Facsimile Number:    (819) 997-9776
       
(3)    Telex and facsimile numbers for responses to RFSO's issued by DSS 
       regional offices are identified on the front page of the document.

(4)    Offers submitted by telex, facsimile or commercial telegram will 
       constitute your formal offer and must contain:

       (a)    the DSS file reference number;
       (b)    the closing date and time;
       (c)    sufficient data to allow evaluation, such as unit prices, 
              country of currency in the event that the offer is submitted 
              in a foreign currency, sales tax, duty, technical data (where 
              applicable) and any deviation(s) from the RFSO document.

(5)    For responses transmitted by telex, facsimile or commercial telegram, 
       written confirmation is required within two (2) working days after 
       bid closing, unless otherwise specified in this solicitation. All 
       documents confirming bids should bear the word "CONFIRMATION".

(6)    Only incorrect handling by DSS will excuse the delay of responses 
       transmitted by telex, facsimile or commercial telegram. Misrouting, 
       traffic volume, weather disturbances, or any other causes for the 
       late receipt of such responses are not acceptable.

<strong>8.     Late Offers</strong>
 
It is DSS policy to return, unopened, offers received after the stipulated 
RFSO closing date and time, unless they qualify as a delayed offer as 
described below.

<strong>9.     Delayed Offers</strong>

(1)    An offer received after the closing date and time but before the 
       issue of a SOCA may be considered, provided the delay can be proven 
       to have been due solely to a delay in delivery that can be 
       attributed to the Canada Post Corporation (CPC) (or national 
       equivalent of a foreign country) or to incorrect handling by DSS. 
       The only pieces of evidence relating to a delay in the CPC system 
       that are acceptable to DSS are:

       (a)    a CPC cancellation date stamp;
       (b)    a CPC Priority Courier Bill of Lading; and
       (c)    a CPC Xpresspost Label

       that clearly indicate that the offer was mailed prior to the RFSO 
       closing date.

       Example: If the RFSO closing date was May 15, 1995, then the CPC 
       cancellation date stamp should read no later than May 14, 1995, to 
       be accepted.

(2)    Please request the postal employee to date-stamp your envelope.

(3)    For offers transmitted by telex, facsimile or commercial telegram, 
       only the date and the time of receipt recorded by DSS at the numbers 
       stated above will be accepted as evidence of a delayed offer.

<strong>10.    Postage Meters</strong>

Postage meter imprints, whether imprinted by the Offeror, the CPC or the 
postal authority outside Canada, are not acceptable as proof of timely 
mailing.  It should be noted that CPC does not normally apply a 
cancellation date stamp to metered mail; this is usually done only when 
postage stamps are used.

<strong>11.    Standard Clauses, Conditions and Instruction Sets</strong>

Any standard clause, and any condition or instruction set, used or 
referenced in an RFSO, a Standing Offer, or a call-up pursuant to a 
Standing Offer may be updated from time to time.  When this happens, the 
version used in an already-issued document will remain in effect in that 
document, unless the updated version is legally incorporated.

<strong>B.     PARTICULARS OF THE STANDING OFFER</strong>

<strong>1.     General</strong>

The Offeror acknowledges that a Standing Offer is not a contract.

The Offeror offers to sell or provide and deliver to Canada, acting through 
and represented by the Minister of Supply and Services, the goods or 
services, or both, listed at the price(s) or on the pricing basis set out, 
as and when the Identified Users may request such goods or services, in 
accordance with the following provisions.

It is understood and agreed that:

(a)    a call-up against a Standing Offer shall form a contract only for 
       those goods or services, or both, which have been called-up, 
       provided always that such call-up is made in accordance with the 
       provisions of the Standing Offer;

(b)    the issue and distribution of the authorization to use this Standing 
       Offer does not oblige Canada to authorize or order all or any of the 
       goods, services, or both, described in the Standing Offer; 
(c)    Canada's liability shall be limited to that which arises from 
       call-ups against the offer, made within the period specified in the 
       SOCA;

(d)    Canada reserves the right to procure the specified goods or services 
       by means of contracts, standing offers, or by other contracting 
       methods.

<strong>2.     Notification of Withdrawal/Revision</strong>

In the event that the Offeror wishes to withdraw the Standing Offer after 
authority to "Call-up Against a Standing Offer" has been given, the Offeror 
shall provide no less than thirty (30) days' written notice to the 
Contracting Authority, unless otherwise indicated in the SOCA, in order 
that the Contracting Authority may inform all Identified Users. Such 
withdrawal of Standing Offer shall not be effective until receipt of such 
notification by DSS and the expiry of such notice period. The Offeror 
hereby agrees to fulfil any and all call-ups which may be made before the 
expiry of such notice period.  If the period of the Standing Offer is 
extended or the limitation of expenditure is increased, the Contracting 
Authority will issue a revision to the SOCA.

<strong>3.     Call-up Instrument</strong>

The Identified Users shall request delivery of goods/services on form 
DSS-MAS 942, "Call-up Against a Standing Offer", or other applicable 
call-up document, or by other methods such as telephone, facsimile, telex 
or telegram.  All call-ups placed by telephone, facsimile, telex or 
telegram must be confirmed in writing on form DSS-MAS 942 or other 
applicable call-up document.

Call-ups against the Standing Offer made using the Government of Canada 
Acquisition Card (credit card) will be accorded the same prices, terms and 
conditions as provided for any other form of call-up.

<strong>C.     CONDITIONS</strong>

<strong>1.     Applicability</strong><strong></strong>

The following conditions apply to all contracts resulting from any call-up 
pursuant to the Standing Offer. Conditions numbers 6 through 10, however, 
only apply to goods contracts.

<strong>2.     Municipal Taxes</strong>

Municipal taxes are not applicable.

<strong>3.     Provincial Taxes</strong>

(1)    Excluding legislated exceptions (see subsection (4) below), 
       Identified Users are not required to pay any ad valorem sales tax 
       levied by the province in which the taxable goods or services are 
       delivered. This exemption has been provided to Identified Users 
       under the authority of one of the following:

       (a)    Provincial Sales Tax Exemption Licence Numbers, for the 
              provinces of:

              Newfoundland                32243-0-09
              Prince Edward Island        OP-10000-250
              Nova Scotia                 U84-00-03172-3
              Ontario                            11708174G
              Manitoba                    390-516-0
              British Columbia            005521

       (b)    An Exemption Certification, for Quebec, New Brunswick, 
              Saskatchewan, the Yukon Territory, and the Northwest 
              Territories, which certifies that the property and/or 
              services ordered/purchased hereby are for the use of, and are 
              being purchased by the federal government with Canada funds, 
              and are therefore not subject to provincial/territorial sales 
              and consumption taxes.

(2)    Currently, in Alberta, Saskatchewan, the Yukon Territory, and the 
       Northwest Territories, sales taxes do not apply to goods or services 
       delivered to the federal government.

(3)    The Offeror is not exempt from paying provincial sales tax under the 
       above Exemption Licence Numbers or Exemption Certification. The 
       Offeror is required to pay provincial sales tax on taxable goods or 
       services used or consumed in the performance of the contract (as per 
       appropriate provincial legislation), including material incorporated 
       into real property.

(4)    Exceptions

       The following exceptions are provided as examples and may not 
       represent a complete list of all exceptions under the law:

       (a)    tobacco products subject to tobacco taxes;
       (b)    petroleum products subject to gasoline and motive fuel taxes;
       (c)    vehicle registration fees;
       (d)    amusement/admission (Nova Scotia and New Brunswick);
       (e)    insurance premiums (Quebec);
       (f)    tires/batteries subject to environmental levies (British 
              Columbia);
       (g)    transient living accommodation subject to hotel room taxes 
              (Prince Edward Island and British Columbia).

<strong>4.     Invoices</strong>

Invoices must be submitted in the name of the Offeror and are not to be 
submitted prior to the delivery of supplies or the performance of the 
services. They must show the name and address of the Consignee, together 
with date, method of shipment, the case numbers if applicable, item, 
quantity, unit of issue, unit price, additional charges if applicable, and 
the Goods and Services Tax if applicable, part or reference numbers, 
description of supplies as shown in the Standing Offer, Standing Offer 
number, requisition number and financial code(s). Separate invoices must be 
submitted for each shipment and must apply to one call-up only. Each 
invoice must indicate whether it covers partial or final shipment.

<strong>5.     Bills of Lading</strong>

The transportation bill of lading must accompany the original invoice, 
except for "collect" shipments (if and when allowed), in which event it 
shall accompany the shipment; in addition, a packing slip must accompany 
each shipment, be clearly visible, and show item, quantity, part or 
reference numbers, description of supplies and contract reference numbers. 
If the supplies have been inspected at the Offerors' plant, the signed 
inspection voucher must be attached to the packing slip normally enclosed 
in the packing note envelope.

<strong>6.     Inspection and Acceptance</strong>

The goods/services are subject to inspection and acceptance by consignee at 
destination, unless otherwise indicated in the SOCA.

<strong>7.     Proof of Legal Entity</strong>

In order to establish the legal capacity of the bidders to enter into the 
Contract, bidders who carry on business in other than their own personal 
names may be required to provide proof of the legal entity under which they 
carry on business to the Contracting Authority prior to contract award. 
Such proof may be in the form of copies of articles of incorporation, 
registration of a name as a sole proprietor, or of a trade name, or of a 
partnership, etc.

<strong>8.     Condition of Material</strong> 

Material will be new production of current manufacture conforming to the 
current issue of the specifications, standards, drawings or part numbers as 
applicable, unless otherwise indicated in the SOCA.

<strong>9.     Transportation Charges</strong>

If transportation charges are payable by Canada under the terms of the 
Contract, shipments are to be made by the most direct and economical means 
consistent with normal shipping practice, unless otherwise directed (as in 
the case when transportation costs are part of the unit price). They are to 
be shown as a separate item on the invoice.

<strong>10.    Valuation</strong>

The federal government's policy of underwriting its own risks precludes 
payment of any excess valuation and/or transportation charges beyond the 
specified FOB point (the point at which title of goods passes to the 
federal government). Goods will be covered to the carrier's maximum 
liability and value will be declared only when additional costs will not be 
incurred.

<strong>11.    Shipment into Canada</strong>

Goods shipped into Canada from another country are to be consigned to 
destination, IN BOND, unless otherwise directed.


</pre>
</div>