<pre><div class="sacc-item">
<ol type="a">
<li value="1">The Contractor warrants that the unit prices stated
herein, excluding any part of the prices which reflects
requirements for preservation, packaging and packing beyond
standard commercial practice, are not in excess of the Contractor's
applicable established prices in effect on the date set for opening
the bids (or the Contract date, if this is a negotiated Contract
rather than one entered into by means of formal advertising) for
like quantities of the supplies covered by this Contract.</li>
<li value="2">The Contractor shall promptly notify the Contracting
Officer specified herein as to the amount and effective date of
each decrease in any established price, and each applicable unit
price under this Contract shall be decreased by the amount of the
decrease in the applicable established price. Any such decrease in
a unit price shall apply to those supplies delivered on and after
the effective date of the corresponding decrease in the
Contractor's established price, and this Contract shall be amended
accordingly. The Contractor shall certify on each invoice submitted
under the Contract that each unit price stated therein reflects all
decreases, if any, which the Contractor has made in the established
price applicable thereto since the date set for opening of bids (or
the Contract date, if this is a negotiated Contract rather than one
entered into by formal advertising), or shall certify on the final
invoice that all such decreases have been applied to supplies
delivered on and after the effective date of each such decrease in
the Contractor's established prices.</li>
<li value="3">The Contractor may, from time to time after the date
of this Contract and during the performance hereof, by written
notice to the <abbr title="Canadian Commercial Corporation">CCC</abbr> Contracting Officer, request an upward adjustment
in any of the Contract unit prices to be effective as of a date to
be specified by the Contractor. Such request shall be acted upon in
accordance with the following provisions of this clause.</li>
<li value="4">An upward adjustment in a Contract unit price may be
made under this clause only in accordance with the following
conditions:
<ol type="1">
<li value="1">Such an upward adjustment shall be made only if the
Contractor's applicable established price has increased subsequent
to the date set for opening of bids (or the Contract date, if this
is a negotiated Contract rather than one entered into by means of
formal advertising).</li>
<li value="2">No unit price shall be increased by an amount greater
than the amount of the increase in the Contractor's applicable
established price.</li>
<li value="3">The aggregate of the increases in any unit price made
under this clause shall not exceed ten (10) percent of the original
unit price under the Contract.</li>
<li value="4">No adjusted unit price shall be effective earlier
than the effective date of the increase in the applicable
established price, but if the Contractor's request for adjustment
is received by the Contracting Officer more than ten (10) days
after the effective date of the increase in the Contractor's
applicable rate, no adjusted unit price shall be effective earlier
than the date of receipt by the Contracting Officer of such
request.</li>
<li value="5">No upward adjustment in unit prices hereunder shall
apply to supplies which were required by the Contract delivery
schedule to be delivered prior to the effective date of the related
increase in the applicable established price, unless the
Contractor's failure to deliver supplies in accordance with the
delivery schedule results from causes beyond the control and
without the fault or negligence of the Contractor within the
meaning of paragraph c) of the clause of this Contract entitled
"Default", in which case the Contract shall be amended to make an
equitable extension of the delivery schedule.</li>
</ol>
</li>
<li value="5">In the event the requested upward adjustment in a
unit price under the Contract is acceptable to the <abbr title="Canadian Commercial Corporation">CCC</abbr> Contracting
Officer, the Contractor shall be so notified by the Contracting
Officer, and the Contract shall be amended accordingly. In the
event the requested upward adjustment is not acceptable to the
Contracting Officer, or if the Contracting Officer does not reach
an agreement with the Contractor with respect to a price increase,
the Contracting Officer may, within thirty (30) days after receipt
of the Contractor's request, cancel, without liability to either
party, the Contractor's right to proceed with performance of that
portion of the Contract which is undelivered at the time of such
cancellation, except that the Contractor may make delivery of all
or any of the supplies which a duly authorized officer of the
Contractor shall certify were completed or in the process of
manufacture at the time of receipt of notice of such cancellation.
In such event, <abbr title="Canadian Commercial Corporation">CCC</abbr> shall pay for all supplies so delivered at the
applicable unit price contained in the Contractor's request, and
the Contract shall be amended accordingly provided that such
certification is made within ten (10) days after receipt of notice
of such cancellation, and provided further than such requested
increase satisfies all of the conditions and does not exceed the
limitations of paragraph (d). In the event this Contract is for
standard steel supplies, they shall be deemed to be in the process
of manufacture when the steel therefor is in any state of
processing after the beginning of the furnace melt.</li>
<li value="6">During the period after the Contractor has requested
an upward adjustment, and prior to an agreement between the parties
with respect to the request, or cancellation of the Contract
pursuant to paragraph (e), the Contractor shall be paid for
deliveries of the item in respect of which the adjustment was
requested at the applicable increased unit prices as requested,
provided that such requested increases satisfy all the conditions
and do not exceed the limitations of paragraph (d), and provided
further that if the parties agree on an increase less than that
requested, payments previously made at the requested amount shall
be adjusted accordingly. If the <abbr title="Canadian Commercial Corporation">CCC</abbr> Contracting Officer neither
reaches an agreement with the Contractor on the requested
adjustment, nor cancels the Contract, then the Contractor shall be
paid therefor at the applicable increased unit prices as requested,
provided that such requested increases satisfy all the conditions
and do not exceed the limitations of paragraph (d).</li>
</ol>
</div></pre>