<pre><strong>9329   00     (06/06/94)    Purchase of Commercially Available 
                                   Off-the-shelf Goods and Services</strong><strong></strong>


Supply and Services Canada

01  Interpretation
02  Warranties
03  Title, Acceptance and Risk
04  Payment
05  Default and Bankruptcy
06  Termination
07  No Bribe, Etc.
08  Members of the House of Commons
09  Changes to Taxes and Duties
10  Time of Essence  
11  Certification - Contingency Fees




<strong>9329   01     (06/91)       Interpretation</strong>


In the contract,

       (a) "Canada", "Crown", or "Her Majesty" means Her Majesty, the Queen 
       in right of Canada;

       (b) "Work" means the whole of the work, services, materials, matters 
       and things required to be done, furnished and/or performed by the 
       Contractor in order to carry out the Contract;

       (c) "Contract" means these general conditions, any referenced 
       provisions and the agreement to which they are attached;

       (d) "Minister" means the Minister of Supply and Services and any 
       other person authorized to act on the Minister's behalf. 

<strong>9329   02     (06/91)       Warranties</strong>


(1) The Contractor represents and warrants that the Work will be of a 
proper quality, free from any defect in material and workmanship, and shall 
be in full conformity with all other requirements of the Contract.

(2) Notwithstanding prior acceptance of the Work and without restricting 
any other term of the Contract or any conditions, warranty or provision 
implied or imposed by law, the Contractor, if requested by the Minister to 
do so, shall replace or repair at its option and its own expense any Work 
which becomes defective or which fails to conform to the Contract 
requirements as a result of faulty or inefficient manufacture, material or 
workmanship, notice of which is provided to the Contractor within a 
reasonable time during or after the warranty period which commences the day 
after delivery and acceptance of the Work.  Unless otherwise stipulated in 
the Contract, the warranty period will be 90 days or the length of the 
Contractor's or manufacturer's standard warranty period, whichever is 
longer. 

<strong>9329   03     (06/91)       Title, Acceptance and Risk</strong>


(1) Except as otherwise provided in the Contract, title to the Work or any 
part thereof shall vest in Canada upon delivery to and acceptance by Canada 
of the Work or any part thereof.

(2) Where title to any Work or any part thereof, or any rights vest in 
Canada under the Contract, the Contractor shall execute such conveyances 
and other documents relating to title as may be required to evidence the 
title or rights of Canada.

(3) Unless otherwise specified in the Contract, risk of loss or damage to 
the Work or any part thereof shall remain with the Contractor until 
delivery to and acceptance by Canada.



<strong>9329   04     (06/91)       Payment</strong>


(1) Payment by Canada for the Work shall be made following delivery, 
inspection and acceptance of the Work, and following presentation of 
invoices and such other documentation as the Minister may reasonably 
require, and of which prior notice has been furnished.

(2) The period for payments shall be within thirty (30) days, calculated 
from:

       (a) the date the invoice is received, or

       (b) the date of receipt of the goods,

whichever is the latest date.

(3) (a)  Except as otherwise stated in the Contract, Canada shall be liable 
to pay,
       without demand from the Contractor, simple interest at the Bank Rate 
       plus 1 1/4 per centum on any amount which is overdue from the day 
       such amount became overdue until the day prior to the date of 
       payment, inclusively; however, interest will not be payable nor paid 
       unless the amount has been outstanding (unpaid) for more than 15 
       days following the due date.  Interest will not be payable on 
       overdue advance payments.

    (b)  The Bank Rate shall be that prevailing at the opening of business 
on
       the date of payment.

(4) It is a term of this contract that payment under this contract is 
subject to there being an appropriation for the particular requirement for 
the fiscal year in which any commitment under this contract would come in 
course of payment. 

<strong>9329   05     (06/91)       Default and Bankruptcy</strong>


Without prejudice to any other rights or remedies, if the Contractor is in 
default in performance of the Contract or is bankrupt or insolvent or in 
receivership, the Minister may terminate all or a portion of the Contract.  
<strong>9329   06     (06/91)       Termination</strong>


(1) The Minister may at any time, by notice, terminate the Contract or 
reduce the quantity or scope of the Work to be delivered and the Contractor 
will give effect to such notice thereof according to its terms.

(2) In such a case, all Work delivered and accepted and unpaid in 
accordance with the notice shall be paid for in accordance with the pricing 
basis established in the Contract.  The Contractor shall be entitled to be 
reimbursed the actual costs reasonably and properly incurred as a direct 
result of the termination, but in no case shall such reimbursement exceed 
the Contract price or shall the Contractor have claim for damages, 
compensation, loss of profit or otherwise, except as herein provided. 

<strong>9329   07     (01/06/94)    No Bribe, Etc.</strong>


The Contractor represents and covenants that no bribe, gift or other 
inducement has been or will be paid, given, promised, or offered to any 
official or employee of Canada for, or with a view to, the obtaining of the 
Contract by the Contractor.


<strong>9329   08     (06/91)       Members of the House of Commons</strong>


No member of the House of Commons shall be admitted to any share or part of 
the Contract or to any benefit to arise therefrom.  

<strong>9329   09     (06/91)       Changes to Taxes and Duties</strong>


In the event of any change in any tax imposed under the Excise Act, the 
Excise Tax Act, or any duties imposed under the Customs Tariff or any other 
federal or provincial sales, excise or other like duties, taxes, charges or 
impositions after the bid submission date and which affects the costs to 
the Bidder/Contractor of the Work, the bid/contract price shall be adjusted 
to reflect the increase or decrease in the cost to the Bidder/Contractor.  

<strong>9329   10     (06/91)       Time of Essence</strong>


Time is of the essence of the Contract. 


<strong>9329   11     (06/06/94)    Certification - Contingency Fees</strong>


 
(1)    The Contractor certifies that it has not directly or indirectly paid 
       or agreed to pay and covenants that it will not directly or 
       indirectly pay a contingency fee for the solicitation, negotiation 
       or obtaining of this Contract to any person other than an employee 
       acting in the normal course of the employee's duties.

(2)    All accounts and records pertaining to payments of fees or other 
       compensation for the solicitation, obtaining or negotiation of the 
       Contract shall be subject to the Accounts and Audit provisions of 
       the Contract.

(3)    If the Contractor certifies falsely under this section or is in 
       default of the obligations contained therein, the Minister may 
       either terminate this Contract for default in accordance with the 
       termination for default provisions of the Contract or recover from 
       the Contractor by way of reduction to the Contract Price or 
       otherwise the full amount of the contingency fee.

(4)    In this section:
       
       "<strong>contingency fee</strong>" means any payment or other compensation that is 
       contingent upon or is calculated upon the basis of a degree of 
       success in soliciting or obtaining a government Contract or 
       negotiating the whole or any part of its terms;

       "<strong>employee</strong>" means a person with whom the Contractor has an employer/
       employee relationship;
       
       "<strong>person</strong>" includes an individual or group of individuals, a 
       corporation, a partnership, an organization and an association and, 
       without restricting the generality of the foregoing, includes any 
       individual who is required to file a return with the registrar 
       pursuant to section 5 of the <em>Lobbyist Registration Act</em> R.S. 1985 c.44 
       (4th Supplement) as the same may be amended from time to time. 

</pre>