<pre><span class="wsStyleUnderline">For all contracts</span>

No later than _____ days after the contract date, the Contractor must 
submit for acceptance by the Department of National Defence (DND) a Quality 
Plan prepared according to the latest issue (at contract date) of ISO 10005 
"Quality management - Guidelines for quality plans".  The Quality Plan 
shall describe how the Contractor will conform to the specified quality 
requirements of the contract and specify how the required quality 
activities are to be carried out, including quality assurance of 
sub-contractors.  The Contractor must include a traceability matrix from 
the elements of the specified quality requirements to the corresponding 
paragraphs in the Quality Plan.

The documents referenced in the Quality Plan shall be made available when 
requested by the Department of Public Works and Government Services or DND.

If the Quality Plan was submitted as part of the bidding process, the 
Contractor must review and, where appropriate, revise the submitted plan to 
reflect any changes in requirements or planning which may have occurred as 
a result of pre-contract negotiations.

Upon acceptance of the Quality Plan by DND, the Contractor must implement 
the Quality Plan.  The Contractor must make appropriate amendments to the 
Quality Plan throughout the term of the contract to reflect current and 
planned quality activities.  Amendments to the Quality Plan must be 
acceptable to DND.

<span class="wsStyleUnderline">For contracts requiring software design, development or maintenance</span><span class="wsStyleUnderline"></span>

For the design, development or maintenance of software, the Contractor 
shall interpret the requirements of the ISO 9001 Quality Standard according 
to the guidelines of the latest issue (at contract date) of ISO 9000-3 "
Quality management and quality assurance standards - Part 3: Guidelines for 
the application of ISO 9001 to the development, supply and maintenance of 
software".

</pre>