<pre><strong>CCC50  00     (06/06/94)    Canadian Commercial Corporation</strong>


Supply and Services Canada   

01  Interpretation
02  Powers of the Corporation
03  Assignment and Subletting
04  Conduct of the Work
05  Inspector the Final Judge of the Work
06  Making Good Rejected Work
07  Acceptance and Delivery
08  Warranty
09  Government Issue
10  Scrap, Etc.
11  Care of Crown Property; Insurance
12  Time of the Essence; Extensions
13  Accounts
14  Secrecy and Protection of Work
15  Patent Claims and Royalties
16  Canadian Labour and Materials CANCELLED
17  Conditions Precedent to Payment
18  Indemnity Against Claims
19  Title on Progress Payments, Etc.
20  Further Assurance
21  Suspension of Work and Changes in Specifications
22  Default by Contractor
23  No Bribe, Etc.
24  Labour and Health Conditions
25  Members of the House of Commons
26  Notice
27  Arbitration
28  Termination
29  Foreign Exchange Canada  
30  Certification - Contingency Fees




<strong>CCC50  01     (06/91)       Interpretation</strong>


(1)  Unless the context otherwise requires     

       (a) "the Agreement" means the particular agreement or Contract of 
       which, in any specific case, these General Conditions are made a 
       part;

       (b) "the Contract" means and includes the Agreement, these General 
       Conditions and any Supplemental Conditions, Specifications, labour 
       conditions, schedules and other documents (if any) referred to in 
       the Agreement as constituting the Contract;

       (c) "Supplemental Conditions" means any other general conditions 
       forming part of the Contract;

       (d) "herein", "hereby", "hereof", "hereunder", and similar 
       expressions, refer to the Contract as a whole;

       (e) "Work" means the work done or required to be done by the 
       Contractor in order to carry out the Contract and, where the  
       context permits, includes services, Finished Work, work in process 
       and all parts, materials, components, articles and things required 
       or used or intended to be used to carry out the Contract;

       (f) "Finished Work" means the supplies and/or services and/or 
       projects and/or work called for by the Contract, as and when 
       completed in accordance therewith;

       (g) "Specifications" means the Specifications, plans, drawings, 
       designs and/or models (if any) referred to in the Agreement and/or 
       furnished to the Contractor for the carrying out of the Contract;

       (h) "Equipment" includes machinery, apparatus, jigs, tools, dies, 
       gauges, instruments and equipment of all kinds;

       (i) "Government Issue" means any materials, parts, components, 
       equipment, Specifications, articles and things which may be supplied 
       to the Contractor by or on behalf of Her Majesty for the purposes of 
       the Work;

       (j) "Contract Price" means the amount expressed in the Agreement to 
       be payable to the Contractor for the Work, regardless of whether the 
       Contract is for a stipulated price or is on a cost-plus basis;

       (k) "The Corporation" means Canadian Commercial Corporation;

       (l) "Inspector" means the person (if any) designated as such in the 
       Agreement or in the Supplemental Conditions (if any) and/or any 
       person for the time being acting on behalf of Her Majesty or the 
       Corporation as the Inspector under the Contract;

       (m) "Allied Firm" means any firm or corporation which directly or 
       indirectly controls or is controlled by or is affiliated with the 
       Contractor, and includes any individual directly or indirectly 
       controlling the Contractor or any such firm or corporation;

       (n) the singular number includes the plural and vice versa.

(2)    In the event of any inconsistencies, the provisions of the Agreement 
       and/or of these General Conditions shall prevail over the 
       Specifications (if any) and the provisions of the Agreement and of 
       the Supplemental Conditions (if any) shall prevail over these 
       General Conditions. 
 
<strong>CCC50  02     (06/91)       Powers of the Corporation</strong>


The Corporation is the agent of Her Majesty for all purposes of the 
Contract.  

<strong>CCC50  03     (06/91)       Assignment and Subletting</strong>


(1)  The Contractor shall not assign or sublet the Contract or any of the 
Work without the prior written consent of the Corporation and any 
assignment or subletting made without such consent shall be of no effect 
provided that (unless the Contract or the Corporation directs otherwise) 
the Contractor may sublet such portions of the Work as are usually sublet 
in similar cases.  The Contractor shall promptly furnish to the Corporation 
full particulars of all subcontracts.  No assignment or subletting shall 
relieve the Contractor from any of its obligations under the Contract or 
impose any liability upon Her Majesty or the Corporation to an assignee or 
subcontractor.  

(2)  Subject to the foregoing, the Contract shall enure to the benefit of 
and shall be binding upon the successors and assigns of Her Majesty and of 
the Contractor, respectively.  

<strong>CCC50  04     (06/91)       Conduct of the Work</strong>


(1)  The Contractor shall diligently carry out the Work, shall provide 
efficient supervision and inspection thereof and shall be responsible for 
seeing that the Work is of proper quality, material and workmanship and 
satisfies the requirements of the Contract. 

(2)  The nature and spirit of the Contract is to provide for the Work 
therein enumerated to be fully completed in every detail for the purpose 
designed; and the Contractor agrees to furnish any and every thing 
necessary for such purpose, notwithstanding any omission in the drawings or 
Specifications.  

(3)  The Contractor shall apply to the Corporation for any  explanation 
which the Contractor may require in regard to the meeting and intent of any 
clause in the Specifications and Contract, and shall be held responsible 
for any errors or losses consequent upon failure to obtain such explanation.  

(4)  Drawings and Specifications are intended to complement each  other, so 
that if anything is shown on the drawings but not mentioned in the 
Specifications, or vice versa, it is to be furnished and built as though 
specifically set forth in both.  If any discrepancies are discovered in the 
drawings, or any conflict between the drawings and the Specifications, the 
same shall be referred to the Corporation before proceeding with the Work.  
Figured dimensions on drawings are to have precedence.  

(5) Materials used must conform to the Specifications whether shown on the 
Corporation's or the Contractor's drawings or not. 

(6) Approval by the Corporation of the Contractor's drawings shall not 
relieve the Contractor of responsibility for corrections thereof, nor for 
results arising from error or omission.  

(7)  No materials or parts shall be used or processed and no Finished Work 
shall be submitted for acceptance or shall be delivered unless or until 
approved by the Contractor's inspection staff and, wherever practicable, 
marked with an approval stamp satisfactory to the Inspector.  The 
Contractor shall keep proper and adequate inspection records which shall at 
all times be open to examination by the Inspector who may make copies 
thereof and take extracts therefrom.  

(8)  The Corporation and the Inspector shall have access to the Work at all 
times and may make such tests of the Work as they may think fit.  The 
Contractor shall provide all assistance and facilities, test pieces and 
samples which the Corporation or the Inspector may require for the carrying 
out of any such tests. 
 
(9)  The Contractor shall not stop or suspend Work pending the settlement 
or determination (by arbitration or otherwise) of any differences arising 
under the Contract.  

<strong>CCC50  05     (06/91)       Inspector, the Final Judge of the Work</strong>


The Inspector shall be the final judge of the Work and of its quality and 
workmanship.  The Inspector shall have full power to reject or refuse to 
accept any Finished Work or parts or materials or work in process which the 
Inspector considers are not in accordance with the requirements of the 
Contract.  The Inspector shall also be the sole judge as to the meaning of 
the Specifications, if any. 

<strong>CCC50  06     (06/91)       Making Good Rejected Work</strong>


The Contractor shall forthwith at its own expense make good any Work which 
the Inspector may have refused to accept or, alternatively, at the option 
of the Corporation, all amounts previously paid to the Contractor in 
respect of Work rejected or not accepted shall forthwith be repaid by the 
Contractor.   

<strong>CCC50  07     (06/91)       Acceptance and Delivery</strong>


Final acceptance by the Inspector of any Finished Work shall be deemed to 
be delivery to and acceptance by Her Majesty of the Work so accepted and 
such acceptance shall be a condition precedent to delivery.  Provided 
always that if the Agreement provides for a particular place or manner of 
delivery, such delivery shall not be complete unless or until made in 
accordance therewith.  Upon delivery, title to the Work delivered shall 
vest in Her Majesty if not already so vested.  The right of the Inspector 
to refuse final acceptance of any of the Work shall not be affected by any 
prior inspection, approval or acceptance of any parts, materials or work in 
process or any other Finished Work.  

<strong>CCC50  08     (06/91)       Warranty</strong>


Without restricting any other term of the Contract or any warranty 
stipulated or implied by law, the Contractor shall, at its own expense, 
replace any articles, parts or materials included in the Work (not 
including any Government Issue) which at any time within eighteen (18) 
months from the delivery thereof become defective as a result of faulty or 
inefficient manufacture, materials or workmanship.  

<strong>CCC50  09     (06/91)       Government Issue</strong>


(1)  All items comprised in any Government Issue shall be used by the 
Contractor solely for the purposes of the Contract and shall always be and 
remain the property of Her Majesty and, wherever feasible, the Contractor 
shall mark the same as being Her Majesty's property.  

(2)  Any items of Government Issue found to be damaged or defective shall 
be replaced by Her Majesty upon the Inspector certifying in writing to the 
Corporation that the damage or defect is not due to the fault or negligence 
of the Contractor.  If the Inspector certifies that more than five (5) per 
cent of the total Government Issue of the same kind or type is damaged or 
defective (otherwise than as a result of the fault or negligence of the 
Contractor), Her Majesty shall reimburse the Contractor for any loss 
incurred by the Contractor which is directly attributable to such damaged 
or defective items in excess of five (5) per cent. 

(3)  All Government Issue (except such as are installed or incorporated in 
the Work) shall be returned to the Corporation upon demand, in the same 
condition as when supplied to the Contractor; provided that the Contractor 
shall not be responsible for any loss or damage resulting from ordinary 
wear and tear or from causes beyond the Contractor's reasonable control.  
 
<strong>CCC50  10     (06/91)       Scrap, Etc.</strong>


All scrap and waste materials derived from any Government Issue, or from 
any other materials, articles or things which are the property of Her 
Majesty, shall, unless otherwise specifically provided herein, remain the 
property of Her Majesty and shall be disposed of only as prescribed by the 
Corporation.  

<strong>CCC50  11     (06/91)       Care of Crown Property; Insurance</strong>


(1)  The Contractor shall take reasonable and proper care of any and all 
property owned by Her Majesty which is from time to time in the Contractor'
s custody or control and shall be responsible for any loss thereof or 
damage thereto resulting from its failure to do so, other than loss or 
damage caused by fire or by ordinary wear and tear.  

(2)  Unless otherwise provided elsewhere in the Contract, no insurance 
shall be carried by the Contractor on any property owned by Her Majesty 
provided that if the Contract is for a stipulated price, this subsection (2) 
shall not prevent the Contractor from carrying insurance upon property the 
title to which becomes vested in Her Majesty by virtue of section 19 of 
these General Conditions.  

<strong>CCC50  12     (06/91)       Time of the Essence; Extensions</strong>


Time shall be deemed to be of the essence of the Contract; provided that 
the time for completing any of the Work which has been or is likely to be 
delayed by reason of force majeure or other cause beyond the reasonable 
control of the Contractor shall be extended by a period equal to the length 
of the delay so caused, provided that prompt notice in writing of the 
occurrence causing or likely to cause such delay is given to the 
Corporation.  

<strong>CCC50  13     (06/91)       Accounts</strong>


The Contractor shall keep proper and detailed accounts and records of the 
cost of the Work and invoices, receipts and vouchers relating thereto. If 
any part of the Work is performed by an allied firm in Canada, the 
Contractor shall also cause such allied firm to keep similar accounts, 
records, invoices, receipts and vouchers with respect to the cost of the 
work performed by such allied firm.  All such accounts, records, invoices, 
receipts and vouchers shall be open to audit and inspection by the 
authorized representatives of the Corporation at any time until the 
expiration of six (6) years from the end of the calendar year in which the 
Contract is terminated or completed.  The Corporation's authorized 
representatives may make copies thereof and take extracts therefrom.  The 
Contractor shall afford all facilities for such audits and inspections and 
shall furnish the Corporation and its authorized representatives with all 
such information as it or they may from time to time require with reference 
to such accounts, records, invoices, receipts and vouchers.  

<strong>CCC50  14     (06/91)       Secrecy and Protection of Work</strong>


(1)  The Contract and the Specifications and all information issued, used 
or disclosed in connection with the Work are confidential.  The Contractor 
shall not use the same for any purpose other than the Contract without the 
written authority of the Corporation and shall, at all times, take and 
cause to be taken all measures necessary for the protection of the same and 
of the Government Issue, if any, against espionage, sabotage and fire.  

(2)  The Contract and the Specifications and information aforesaid  may be 
classified as to the degree of precaution necessary for their safeguarding.  
If so classified, 
 
       (a) the measures to be taken by the Contractor for their 
       safeguarding shall include those set out in any instructions issued 
       in that regard by or on behalf of the Corporation;

       (b) if so directed by the Corporation, the Contractor shall dispense 
       with the services in connection with the work of any person employed 
       or engaged thereon; and 

       (c) the Contractor shall permit the Corporation at all times, 
       through such agency as he may see fit, to take and to maintain on or 
       about the premises of the Contractor where the Work or any part 
       thereof is being carried on, such guards or other protective 
       measures as in the opinion of the Corporation may be advisable.  

<strong>CCC50  15     (06/91)       Patent Claims and Royalties</strong>


(1)  The Contractor shall indemnify the Corporation against all claims, 
actions, suits and proceedings for the infringement or alleged infringement 
of any patent based upon the use of any invention protected by such patent 
in carrying out the Contract, and for royalties or other payments which may 
be payable in connection with such patent. 

(2)  Upon notification from the Corporation that any such claim, action, 
suit or proceeding has been made or commenced, the Contractor shall, unless 
otherwise instructed by the Corporation, conduct at its own expense all 
negotiations for the settlement of the same.  

<strong>CCC50  16     (04/92)       Canadian Labour and Materials</strong>


CANCELLED

<strong>CCC50  17     (06/91)       Conditions Precedent to Payment</strong><strong></strong>


No payment shall be made to the Contractor unless or until       

       (a) invoices, inspection notes and all other documents prescribed 
       from time to time by the Corporation or by the Inspector are 
       prepared, signed and submitted in accordance with the terms of the 
       Contract or as instructed from time to time by the Corporation; and   

       (b) the Contractor establishes to the satisfaction of the 
       Corporation (if so required) that all materials, parts, work in 
       process and/or Finished Work in respect of which payment is being 
       made are free and clear from all claims, liens, attachments, charges 
       or encumbrances.  

<strong>CCC50  18     (06/91)       Indemnity Against Claims</strong><strong></strong>


The Contractor shall indemnify and save harmless Her Majesty and the 
Corporation from and against any and all claims, damages, loss, costs and 
expenses which they or either of them may at any time incur or suffer as a 
result of or arising out of

       (a) any injury to persons (including injuries resulting in death) or 
       loss of or damage to property which may be or be alleged to be 
       caused by or suffered as a result of the carrying out of the Work or 
       any part thereof; and/or       

       (b) any liens, attachments, charges or other encumbrances or claims 
       upon or in respect of any materials, parts, work in process and/or 
       Finished Work delivered, to, or in respect of which any payment has 
       been made by Her Majesty or the Corporation.  
<strong> </strong><strong></strong>
<strong>CCC50  19     (06/91)       Title on Progress Payments, Etc.</strong><strong></strong>


Upon any payment being made to the Contractor for or on account of 
materials, parts and/or work in process acquired by the Contractor for the 
purposes of the Work, either by way of progress payments or accountable 
advances or otherwise, title in and to such materials, parts and/or work in 
process shall vest and remain in Her Majesty both before and after 
completion of the Work, unless already so vested under any other provision 
of the Contract, but the Contractor shall nevertheless remain responsible 
therefor until delivery of the Finished Work.  

<strong>CCC50  20     (06/91)       Further Assurance</strong><strong></strong>


Wherever it is herein provided that title to any parts, materials, work in 
process and/or Finished Work becomes vested in Her Majesty, the Contractor 
shall execute such conveyances thereof and/or other instruments of further 
assurance as the Corporation may request.   

<strong>CCC50  21     (06/91)       Suspension of Work and Changes in 
                     Specifications</strong><strong></strong>
<strong>              </strong><strong></strong>

The Corporation may at any time and from time to time order a  suspension 
of the Work, in whole or in part and/or make  modifications of, changes in 
and/or additions to the Specifications. All directions given by the 
Corporation with respect to the foregoing shall be complied with by the 
Contractor. If any such suspension, modification, change or addition shall 
result in an increase or decrease in the cost of the Work, the Contract 
Price shall be adjusted accordingly, provided that the Contractor shall, in 
no event, be entitled to compensation for any loss of anticipated profits 
(except that in the event of any change which results in a substantial part 
of the Work theretofore performed by the Contractor having to be discarded, 
the Contractor shall be entitled to payment of an amount representing a 
fair and reasonable profit in respect of such discarded Work) and provided 
further that, unless the Contract is on a cost-plus basis, minor increases 
or decreases in cost shall be disregarded.  

<strong>CCC50  22     (06/91)       Default by Contractor</strong><strong></strong>


(1)  If the Contractor is in default for a period of fifteen (15) days in 
carrying out the terms of the Contract as a result of events or occurrences 
for which it is responsible or which are within its control, or if the 
Contractor becomes bankrupt or insolvent, or has a receiving order made 
against it, or makes an assignment for the benefit of creditors, or if an 
order is made or resolution passed for the winding up of the Contractor, or 
if the Contractor takes the benefit of any statute for the time being in 
force relating to bankrupt or insolvent debtors, the Corporation may at its 
option, upon giving notice in writing to the Contractor, 

       (a) terminate the Contract as to Work not theretofore completed; or 

       (b) take the Work out of the Contractor's hands and employ such 
       means as the Corporation may see fit to complete the Work in whole 
       or in part. 

(2)  Upon the giving of such notice, the Contractor shall have no claim for 
any further payment, save as hereinafter in section 22 provided, but shall 
remain liable for all loss and damage which may be suffered by Her Majesty 
by reason of the default or occurrence upon which such notice was based.  

(3)  If the Work is taken over by the Corporation,       

       (a) all plant, equipment, materials, articles and rights available 
       to the Contractor for the purposes of the Work may be utilized by 
       the Corporation or its authorized representatives as fully as they 
       might have been used and exercised by the Contractor; and      
 
       (b) unless the Contract is a cost-plus contract, upon completion of 
       the Work, or such part of it as the Corporation shall see fit to 
       complete, the Contractor shall be entitled to credit, on the basis 
       of the Contract Price, for such of the Work as shall have been so 
       completed by the Corporation and the amount for which the Contractor 
       is so entitled to credit shall be applied against the cost to Her 
       Majesty of completing the Work so completed and the loss or damage 
       for which the Contractor is liable as above provided, and any excess 
       or deficiency shall be paid by Her Majesty to the Contractor or by 
       the Contractor to Her Majesty, as the case may be.  

<strong>CCC50  23     (01/06/94)    No Bribe, Etc.</strong>


The Contractor warrants that no bribe, gift or other inducement has been 
paid, promised or offered to any official or employee of Her Majesty for, 
or with a view to, the obtaining of the Contract by the Contractor.


<strong>CCC50  24     (06/91)       Labour and Health Conditions</strong>


The Contractor shall comply with all labour conditions, and with all health 
conditions and requirements, from time to time applicable to the Work.   

<strong>CCC50  25     (06/91)       Members of the House of Commons</strong>


No member of the House of Commons shall be admitted to any share or part of 
the Contract or to any benefit to arise therefrom.  

<strong>CCC50  26     (06/91)       Notice</strong>


Any notice to the Contractor hereunder shall be effectively given if sent 
by letter or by telegram, postage prepaid or with charges prepaid, as the 
case may be, addressed to the Contractor at its address as given in the 
Agreement or, if no address is so given, at its address as shown by the 
records of the Corporation.  Any<strong> </strong>notice so given shall be deemed to have 
been received by the Contractor at the time when in the ordinary<strong> </strong>course 
such letter or telegram should have reached its destination.  

<strong>CCC50  27     </strong>(<strong>06/91</strong>)       <strong>Arbitration</strong>


In the event of any dispute between the parties with respect to anything 
arising out of the Contract (save in respect of any matter as to which the 
decision of the Corporation or of the Inspector or other person is final or 
any matter with regard to which any other manner of settlement is herein 
expressly provided), the matter in dispute shall be referred for decision 
to a single arbitrator or, if the parties cannot agree upon a single 
arbitrator, to two arbitrators, one to be selected by the Corporation and 
the other by the Contractor.  In case the two arbitrators so selected 
cannot agree, they shall select a third and the decision of any two of the 
three shall be binding.  In case the two arbitrators so selected cannot 
agree upon the selection of the third arbitrator, the third arbitrator 
shall be appointed by the Exchequer Court upon a reference being made to 
such Court.  A party who has not appointed an arbitrator after the other 
party has appointed one shall do so within five (5) days after being 
notified in writing by such other party to do so, and in default of 
appointment such other party's arbitrator may act as sole arbitrator whose 
decision shall be binding.  If the arbitrator of either party shall fail to 
proceed with the consideration of the matters in dispute within five (5) 
days after being required in writing by the other party's arbitrator to do 
so, such other party's arbitrator, if a third arbitrator has not been 
appointed, shall be at liberty to act as sole arbitrator whose decision 
shall be binding, or the other two arbitrators, if a third has been 
appointed, may forthwith appoint an arbitrator in lieu of the one who has 
failed to proceed, and the decision of two of such three arbitrators shall 
be binding.  The costs of the arbitration shall be in the discretion of the 
arbitrators; provided, however, that no party shall be obliged to pay more 
than its own costs and the costs of the third arbitrator.  

<strong>CCC50  28     (06/91)       Termination</strong>


(1)  Notwithstanding anything in the Contract contained, the Corporation 
may, by giving notice to the Contractor (hereinafter sometimes referred to 
as a "termination notice"), terminate the Contract (save and except the 
provisions of this section and of section 13 of these General Conditions) 
as regards all or any part or parts of the Work not theretofore completed.  
Upon a termination notice being given, the Contractor shall cease Work 
(including the manufacturing and/or procuring of materials for the 
fulfilment of the Contract) in accordance with and to the extent specified 
in such notice.  The Corporation may, at any time or from time to time, 
give one or more additional termination notices with respect to any or all 
parts of the Work not terminated by any previous termination notice.  

(2)  In the event of a termination notice being given under the provisions 
of this section, and subject as hereinafter provided, 

       (a) all Finished Work, whether completed before the giving of such 
       notice or completed thereafter pursuant to such notice, shall be 
       paid for (subject to acceptance in accordance with the provisions of 
       the Contract) on the basis of the Contract Price;

       (b) in respect of Work not completed before the giving of such 
       notice, and not completed thereafter pursuant to such notice, the 
       Contractor shall be entitled to be reimbursed the actual cost to the 
       Contractor of such uncompleted Work, and to receive, in addition, an 
       amount representing a fair and reasonable profit in respect of Work 
       done thereon.  Cost shall be determined in accordance with the 
       provisions of the Contract Cost Principles, DSS-MAS 1031-2, subject 
       to any modifications thereof which the Corporation may consider to 
       be appropriate in the circumstances;

       (c) subject as provided in paragraph (d) of this subsection (2), the 
       Contractor shall be entitled to be reimbursed the amount of any 
       capital expenditures specifically authorized by the Contract or 
       approved by the Corporation for the purposes of the Contract (and 
       actually made or incurred) to the extent that the same (less any 
       depreciation in respect thereof already taken into account in 
       determining cost) were reasonably and properly incurred by the 
       Contractor in respect of and are properly apportionable to the 
       performance of the Contract and not included in the amounts paid or 
       payable to the Contractor in respect of Finished Work;

       (d) if the Contract is exclusively a contract for the making of 
       capital expenditures in respect of additional equipment and/or plant 
       additions, the foregoing paragraphs (a) to (c) inclusive of this 
       subsection (2) shall not apply, but Her Majesty shall pay or 
       reimburse the Contractor for the reasonable and proper cost to the 
       Contractor (not previously paid by Her Majesty) of 

              (i) all additional equipment which prior to the giving of the 
              termination notice shall have been purchased, acquired or 
              manufactured by the Contractor, or contracted for and for 
              which the Contractor is obligated to make payments; and 

              (ii) all additional equipment in process of manufacture by 
              the Contractor as at the date of the giving of such notice 
              and all Work in connection with the construction of the plant 
              addition up to the said date, including the cost of materials 
              and parts contracted for by the Contractor for the purposes 
              of such manufacture or construction and for which the 
              Contractor is obligated to make payment.  

(3)  Provided always that no reimbursement shall be made in respect of Work 
which has been or may be rejected after inspection as not complying with 
the requirements of the Contract.  
 
(4)  The Contractor shall not be entitled to be reimbursed any amount which 
taken together with any amounts paid or due or becoming due to the 
Contractor under the Contract, shall exceed the Contract Price applicable 
to the Work or the particular part thereof. 

(5)  Notwithstanding the provisions of any of the foregoing subsections (1) 
to (4) inclusive, the amounts which the Contractor shall be entitled to be 
reimbursed in the event of the giving of a termination notice under this 
section 28 shall include, subject as hereinafter provided, the costs of the 
Contractor of an incidental to the cancellation of obligations incurred by 
the Contractor pursuant to the termination notice, the cost of preparing 
the necessary accounts and statements with respect to Work performed to the 
effective date of such termination and/or commitments made by the 
Contractor with respect to the terminated portions of the Work, wages which 
the Contractor is obligated under any laws and regulations for the time 
being in force, to pay to employees whose services are no longer required 
by reason of such termination, the costs of and incidental to the taking of 
an inventory of materials, components, work in process and Finished Work on 
hand at the effective date of the termination and other costs and expenses 
of and incidental to the termination, in whole or in part, of operations 
under the Contract; provided always that payment and reimbursement under 
the provisions of this subsection shall be made only to the extent that it 
is established to the satisfaction of the Corporation that the costs and 
expenses aforesaid were actually incurred by the Contractor and that the 
same are reasonable and are properly attributable to the termination of the 
Work or the part thereof so terminated.  

(6)  In case of disagreement as to the amount which the Contractor is 
entitled to be reimbursed, the matter shall be referred to the Exchequer 
Court.  

(7)  As far as practicable, the Contractor shall place purchase orders and 
subcontracts on terms that will enable the Contractor to terminate the same 
upon conditions and terms similar in effect to those provided in this 
section, and generally the Contractor shall co-operate with the Corporation 
and do everything reasonably within its power at all times to minimize and 
reduce the amount of Her Majesty's obligations in the event of termination 
hereunder. 

(8)  Title to all materials, parts, plant, equipment and/or work in process 
in respect of which reimbursement is made to the Contractor as herein 
provided shall, upon such reimbursement being made, pass to and vest in Her 
Majesty unless already so vested under any other provision of the Contract 
and such materials, parts, plant, equipment and/or work in process shall be 
delivered to the order of the Corporation, but the materials thus taken 
over will in no case be in excess of what would have been required for 
performing the Contract in full if no termination notice had been given. 

(9)  If the Corporation is satisfied that by reason of any action taken 
under the provisions of this section exceptional hardship has resulted to 
the Contractor, then the Corporation may, in its absolute discretion, grant 
such allowance (not to include in any case, however, an allowance or 
compensation for loss of profit) to the Contractor as, in the opinion of 
the Corporation, is warranted by the circumstances. 

(10) The Contractor shall have no claim for damages, compensation, loss of 
profit, allowance or otherwise by reason of or directly or indirectly 
arising out of any action taken or notice given by the Corporation under or 
pursuant to the provisions of this section except to the extent in this 
section expressly provided.  

<strong>CCC50  29     (06/91)       Foreign Exchange</strong>


Unless otherwise provided in the Contract or agreed to by the Corporation, 
the Contractor shall not be entitled to any increase in the Contract Price 
by reason of foreign exchange fluctuations.


<strong>CCC50  30     (06/06/94)    Certification - Contingency Fees</strong>


 
(1)    The Contractor certifies that it has not directly or indirectly paid 
       or agreed to pay and covenants that it will not directly or 
       indirectly pay a contingency fee for the solicitation, negotiation 
       or obtaining of this Contract to any person other than an employee 
       acting in the normal course of the employee's duties.

(2)    All accounts and records pertaining to payments of fees or other 
       compensation for the solicitation, obtaining or negotiation of the 
       Contract shall be subject to the Accounts and Audit provisions of 
       the Contract.

(3)    If the Contractor certifies falsely under this section or is in 
       default of the obligations contained therein, the Minister may 
       either terminate this Contract for default in accordance with the 
       termination for default provisions of the Contract or recover from 
       the Contractor by way of reduction to the Contract Price or 
       otherwise the full amount of the contingency fee.

(4)    In this section:
       
       "<strong>contingency fee</strong>" means any payment or other compensation that is 
       contingent upon or is calculated upon the basis of a degree of 
       success in soliciting or obtaining a government Contract or 
       negotiating the whole or any part of its terms;

       "<strong>employee</strong>" means a person with whom the Contractor has an employer/
       employee relationship;
       
       "<strong>person</strong>" includes an individual or group of individuals, a 
       corporation, a partnership, an organization and an association and, 
       without restricting the generality of the foregoing, includes any 
       individual who is required to file a return with the registrar 
       pursuant to section 5 of the <em>Lobbyist Registration Act</em> R.S. 1985 c.44 
       (4th Supplement) as the same may be amended from time to time. 

</pre>