<h3 class="clause-heading">Remarks â€“ Recommended Use of SACC Item</h3><section class="remarks group-sacc-remarks field-group-section">
 No remarks.
</section>
<h3 class="clause-heading">Legal text for SACC item</h3><pre>The following with an "X" shall apply:

( ) PROOFS:

Proofs must be approved, prior to printing, by:

       ( ) the consignee
       ( ) 

 ( ) DELIVERY:

( ) a. The following delivery schedule is applicable:

       _____ working days from receipt of _____ to delivery of _____;

       working days from receipt of _____ to delivery of _____;

       working days from receipt of _____ to delivery of _____.

( ) b. Delivery will be made at destination by _____.

( ) c. Submission of a bid is taken as certification that this delivery can 
be met.

( ) d. Delivery will be made within _____ from receipt of a demand.

( ) PRINT QUALITY LEVEL:

The Print Quality Level for this requirement is _____ as per Supply and 
Services Canada booklet entitled:

       ( ) Quality Levels for Printing
       ( ) Quality Levels for Colour Reproduction
       ( ) Quality Levels for Forms
       ( ) Quality Levels for Typesetting

( ) COMPONENTS:

All components, including negatives, progressive proofs, colour separation, 
all photographer's negatives and prints taken for any aspect of a job and 
other materials required to produce this job and other materials required 
to produce this job and originals, whether purchased by or supplied by the 
Contractor, are to be considered property of the Crown and must be 
forwarded prepaid, upon completion of the job, to:

              name of the consignee.

Components must be suitably packaged to ensure arrival at destination in an 
undamaged condition and clearly marked "DO NOT FOLD".  The Contractor must 
itemize components on the delivery slip and obtain proof of return.  
Failure to return components may hold up payment of invoice.

( ) PAPER STOCK:

Paper supplied is to be in accordance with Supply and Services Canada 
booklet "Generic Identification of Paper and Paperboard Brand names".

( ) SALES TAX:

( ) Goods and Services Tax extra, as applicable.
 
       It is understood and agreed that the Contractor is responsible for 
       determining GST applicability on the goods or services supplied at 
       the time of job completion. Accordingly, the amount of the tax to be 
       paid shall be shown as a separate item on the invoice(s).

( ) Provincial Sales Tax not exigible.

( ) If exigible, is applicable to the requirement and must be included on 
your invoice as Provincial Sales Tax extra.  This document is issued on 
behalf of Canada Post Corporation by Supply and Services Canada as agent of 
the consignee.

( ) OVERRUNS/UNDERRUNS:

Unless otherwise stated herein, overruns or underruns must not exceed the 
following:

       - 10 percent overrun on quantities of less than 5,000
       - 5 percent overrun on quantities between 5,000 and 100,000
       - 2 percent overrun on quantities in excess of 100,000
       - underruns must not exceed 2 percent
       - overruns and underruns for labels and tags will be standard in 
       trade practice

( ) AUTHOR ALTERATIONS:

The allowance for author's alterations will be as follows, unless shown 
otherwise in the Basis of Payment.

       DOLLAR VALUE                       PERCENTAGE OF EXTRA EXPENDITURE
       1 -  1,000                                       5 percent
       1,001 - 10,000                                          4 percent
       10,001 - 30,000                                  3 percent
       30,001 - 40,000                                         2 percent
       40,001 and over                                  1 percent

 Author's alterations which exceed the allowance must be approved by the 
Department of Supply and Services prior to implementation.  The cost of 
author's alterations within the allowable range must be approved by the 
consignee prior to implementation.

( ) INVOICING:

1. Overruns and underruns are to be shown as a separate item on the invoice.

2. Overruns are to be invoiced at the "additional same run" price.

3. Underruns - invoice for the total contract quantity at the "additional 
same run" price.

4. Invoices for author's alterations are to be rendered separately.

5. Failure to return components may hold up payment of invoice. 
</pre>