<button class="print-clause btn btn-default mrgn-tp-sm mrgn-rght-sm pull-right"><span class="glyphicon glyphicon-print"></span><span class="wb-inv">Print</span></button><div>
<h3 class="clause-heading">Remarks â€“ Recommended Use of SACC Item</h3><section class="remarks group-sacc-remarks field-group-section">
 No remarks.
</section>
<h3 class="clause-heading">Legal text for SACC item</h3><pre>FINANCIAL LIMITATION:

Her Majesty's liability to the Supplier for services actually requested and 
accepted under any STANDING OFFER shall not, unless otherwise authorized in 
writing by the Minister, exceed the estimated expenditure specified on the 
front page of the Standing Offer, and the Supplier shall not act upon any 
CALL-UPS under this Standing Offer which would cause the estimated 
expenditure to be exceeded.  The Supplier shall notify, in writing, the DSS 
Contracting Authority, as to the adequacy of the estimated expenditure when 
it is 75 percent committed, or two (2) months prior to the expiry of the 
Standing Offer, whichever comes first.

All rates are subject to review by DSS if significant increase to the 
Financial Limitation is required.  Failure to submit the necessary support 
data for rate review, on request, will result in disqualification of the 
Supplier's offer and termination of the use of the RMSO.

EXCEEDING THE FINANCIAL LIMITATION:

The Department of Supply and Services is the sole authority authorized by 
Treasury Board to contract for temporary help.  The standing offers 
arrangement established a vehicle giving government departments the 
authority to issue individual contracts or call-ups against the standing 
offers in place.  The Supplier agrees to closely monitor the financial 
limitation of its standing offer as detailed in the above clause entitled 
FINANCIAL LIMITATION.

In the event a supplier accepts call-ups which exceed the current financial 
limitation, DSS will remind all government departments that the Department 
of Supply and Services is the sole contracting authority for temporary help 
and all departments will be requested to cease to make any further call-ups.  
Furthermore, failure of the Supplier to adequately control the level of its 
financial limitation may result in the deletion of the firm from the source 
list for the following year.

UTILIZATION:

The Supplier will compile and maintain records acceptable to the Minister, 
of temporary employee services supplied to the federal government.  This 
information will be aggregated and submitted monthly to the Department's 
Science and Professional Services Directorate, Hull, Quebec on form DSS-MAS 
9130, Monthly Record of Utilization of Temporary Help Employees, by the 
fifth working day following the official cut-off date for the month 
involved.

The monthly cut-off date is understood to be the last Friday of the 
calendar month.  Services provided in the month after that day should be 
included in the next month's report.  FAILURE TO PROVIDE FULLY COMPLETED 
MONTHLY REPORTS WITHIN THE PRESCRIBED TIME FRAME COULD RESULT IN THE 
TERMINATION, FOR DEFAULT OF THE SUPPLIER, OF ANY CONTRACT MADE PURSUANT TO 
THIS STANDING OFFER, AS WELL AS THE SETTING ASIDE OF THIS STANDING OFFER 
ITSELF.

Separate reports will be supplied for each department and agency using the 
services and will be supplied, if requested, for individual consignees 
therein.

Should no services be supplied during a given month, a "NIL" report will 
   still be supplied. 
</pre>
</div>