<h3 class="clause-heading">Remarks â€“ Recommended Use of SACC Item</h3><section class="remarks group-sacc-remarks field-group-section">
 No remarks.
</section>
<h3 class="clause-heading">Legal text for SACC item</h3><pre>A.  Definitions:

       1. Minimum Wage - means the current minimum wage which must be paid 
       to the temporary employee as established under legislation enacted 
       by the Federal Government or the Government of Ontario or Quebec.

       2. Overtime - means time worked in excess of forty-four (44) hours 
       per week as established by the Department of Labour of the 
       Government of Ontario and Quebec.

       3. Compulsory Employee Benefits - means all benefits stipulated 
       under federal and provincial labour legislation such as Worker's 
       Compensation, and if applicable, Unemployment Insurance, Canada 
       Pension Plan, etc.

B.  Basis of Payment :

The all-inclusive hourly rates provided by the Supplier and detailed in 
Appendix "__" include allowances for the following:

       1. Minimum Wage - The temporary employee must be paid not less than 
       the higher of the federal or provincial minimum wage.  

       2. Employee Benefits - The cost of all mandatory employee benefits 
       as defined herein and any other benefits mutually agreed to by the 
       supplier and the temporary employee.

       3. Interviews - The cost associated with candidate interviews with 
       potential federal government employers.

       4. Utilization Reporting - The cost of preparing and delivering the 
       required monthly reports.

C.  Calculation of Overtime Rates:

The increase in billing rate for authorized overtime work WILL NOT INCLUDE 
any element of overhead and profit, and will be confined solely to the 
increase in wages and employer contributions.

The Supplier agrees that all overtime worked will require the prior 
approval of the Service Site Authority.

D.  Sales Tax:

Provincial sales tax is not applicable to these services and, therefore, 
are not be included in the Supplier's rates.  Goods and services tax, if 
applicable, is extra.

E.  Employee Deductions:
 
The Supplier is responsible for making all temporary employee pay 
deductions required by federal or provincial government legislation and/or 
regulations.

F.  Bilingual Rates:

Bilingual rates are provided to the extent that the Supplier has bilingual 
permanent personnel involved in the selection of the candidates to be 
provided against the call-ups.

G.  Hourly Rates Adjustment:

       1.  The hourly rates contained herein may be subject to review and 
       adjustment if agreed upon by the Minister in the following cases:

              a) if a legislative change in the federal or provincial 
              minimum wage takes effect.  Any adjustment will be equal to 
              the amount by which the new minimum wage exceeds an employee'
              s hourly wage plus the related increase in employer 
              contributions, expressed in cents per hour;

              b) if a federal or provincial legislative change affecting 
              employer contributions takes effect.  Any adjustment will be 
              equal to the increase in employer contributions, expressed in 
              cents per hour. 

       2.  The Supplier will be required to submit a written request to the 
       Contracting Authority for the Minister's authorization for any 
       adjustment as specified herein.  Such request will include the 
       following, if applicable:

              a) certification of existing wages paid to employees who will 
              be affected by the said legislative changes, and

              b) the amount of the increase in employer contributions.

       3.  The hourly rates quoted herein may be subject to a decrease in 
       the event of a federal or provincial legislated decrease in employer 
       contributions.  Any adjustment will be equal to the decrease in 
       employer contributions expressed in cents per hour.  Such decreases 
       will be reflected in the hourly rates set out in this Standing Offer.

Any adjustments pursuant to this article shall be effective upon issuance 
of a written amendment to this Standing Offer.

H.  Discounts:

Details of any discounts offered are indicated on Appendix "__" attached 
hereto. 
I.  Travel and Living Expenses:

Should the temporary employee be required to travel as part of the actual 
performance of the work, then the supplier will be reimbursed for actual 
costs incurred with respect to travel and living expenses not exceeding the 
applicable allowances listed in the current Treasury Board Travel Directive.

In no event shall the Supplier add to these expenses an element to cover 
profit or general and administrative charges.

J.  Transportation

Transportation costs between the temporary help employee's residence and 
the work site and/or the Supplier's premises are the Supplier's 
responsibility and are not included in the Supplier's rates.

k.  Verification of Time Charged:

Time charged will be verified by the Service Site Authority before payment 
is made to the Supplier under the terms and conditions of this Standing 
Offer.

L.  Discretionary Audit:

The profit margins of 10 percent included in the rate certifications are 
   subject to verification by government audit, at the Minister's 
   discretion, before or after payment is made under the terms and 
   conditions of the Contract.  The purpose of such audit would be to 
   determine whether the aggregate of actual profit earned by the 
   Contractor on a series of negotiated firm price and fixed rate contracts 
   received during a particular period selected is fair and reasonable 
   based on the established amount of profit included in earlier price or 
   rate certifications.  If the said audit demonstrates that actual profit 
   is not fair and reasonable, as defined above, it is agreed that the 
   Contractor shall make re-payment to the Crown in the amount found to be 
   in excess of a fair and reasonable profit. 
</pre>