<pre>The Contractor represents and warrants that the Statement of Eligible Goods, 
form DSS-MAS 4079,  submitted with its bid is accurate and complete in 
accordance with the definition of eligible goods referred to in that 
Statement, and that the goods to be supplied shall correspond to that 
Statement. The Contractor acknowledges that the Minister has relied upon 
such representation and warranty to enter into this Contract. Such 
representation and warranty may be verified in such manner as the Minister 
may reasonably require.

The Contractor acknowledges that in the event of a breach of such covenant, 
the Minister shall have the right to treat the Contract as being in default 
in accordance with the default provisions of the Contract.

The Contractor shall keep proper records and documentation relating to the 
determination of the status of the goods provided to Canada as eligible 
goods. The Contractor shall not, without the prior written consent of the 
Minister, dispose of any such records or documentation until the expiration 
of six (6) years after final payment of this Contract, or until settlement 
of all outstanding claims and disputes, whichever is later. All such 
records and documentation shall at all times during the aforementioned 
retention period be open to audit, inspection and examination by the 
authorized representatives of the Minister, who may make copies and take 
extracts thereof. The Contractor shall provide all facilities for such 
audits, inspections and examinations, and shall furnish all such 
information as the representatives of the Minister may from time to time 
require with respect to such records and documentation.

Nothing in this clause shall be interpreted as limiting the rights and 
   remedies which Canada or the Minister may otherwise have in relation to 
   or pursuant to this Contract.  
</pre>