<h3 class="clause-heading">Remarks â€“ Recommended Use of SACC Item</h3><section class="remarks group-sacc-remarks field-group-section">
 No remarks.
</section>
<h3 class="clause-heading">Legal text for SACC item</h3><pre>Date _____ 

One method of supply used by the Department of  Supply and Services (DSS) 
to satisfy the requirements of our customer departments, is to arrange with 
suppliers to submit a standing offer, to provide goods, services or both to 
the federal government, during a specified period. The customer departments 
to be served are then delegated purchasing authority by DSS and may access 
the source of supply directly, as and when required, by issuing call-ups or 
requisitions, detailing the exact quantities of goods or level of services 
they wish to order from the supplier, at a particular point in time, during 
the effective period of the supplier's offer. 

This method of supply is particularly useful in acquiring large volumes of 
frequently ordered goods or services, when the total volume or value of 
goods or level of services that may be required by all customers can be 
estimated beforehand, but it is not possible at the outset to identify the 
exact requirements for any given customer at a specific time in the future. 

Inasmuch as DSS foresees, during the period from _____ up to and including _____ 
a potential need for goods or services or both as more particularly stated 
in the attached, you are hereby invited to provide DSS with a standing 
offer. If you wish to submit an offer, you are required to do so on the 
enclosed form.  Please note that the quantity of goods, level of services 
and estimated expenditure specified in the attached are only an 
approximation of requirements given in good faith. The making of a standing 
offer by you shall not constitute an agreement by the Crown or any 
designated user to order any or all of the said goods or services. The 
designated user may make one or several call-ups against a standing offer, 
each such call-up constituting an acceptance of said standing offer for 
that part of the said goods or services as are described in the call-up. 

Your offer must be returned to the following address and received by the 
time and date indicated below. 

Return completed "Form" to: 

  Closing date and time:   

Address enquiries to:          Telephone No.: 

  (Signature) for the Department of Supply and Services  
</pre>