<pre><strong>REVISION OF DEPARTMENTAL NAME</strong>

Reference to the Minister of Supply and Services or to the Department of 
Supply and Services contained in any term, condition or clause of this 
solicitation shall be interpreted as a reference to the Minister of Public 
Works and Government Services or to the Department of Public Works and 
Government Services, as the case may be.

<strong>STANDARD ACQUISITION CLAUSES AND CONDITIONS MANUAL</strong>

All instructions, general terms, conditions and clauses identified herein 
by title, number and date are set out in the Standard Acquisition Clauses 
and Conditions (SACC) Manual, issued by the Department of Public Works and 
Government Services (DPWGS), bearing Catalogue No. P60-4/1-1991E and 
revised as of February 3, 1997.

The SACC Manual may be obtained from the Public Relations and Print 
Contract Services Sector - Publishing, telephone (XXX) XXX-XXXX, and may 
also be viewed on the Open Bidding Service (OBS), telephone (XXX) XXX-XXXX 
and 1-800-XXX-XXXX, and at all DPWGS procurement offices.

<strong>STANDARD INSTRUCTIONS AND CONDITIONS</strong>

Standard Instructions and Conditions in DSS-MAS _____ (_____) set out in 
the SACC Manual are hereby incorporated by reference into and form part of 
this solicitation.  Submission of a bid constitutes acknowledgement that 
the Bidder has read and agrees to be 
bound by such instructions.

<strong>TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF SOLICITATION AND RESULTING CONTRACT </strong>

Pursuant to the <em>Department of Public Works and Government Services Act,</em> S.C. 
1996, c.16, the general terms, conditions and clauses identified herein by 
title, number and date, are hereby incorporated by reference into and form 
part of this solicitation, bid and any resulting contract, as though 
expressly set out herein, subject to any other express terms and conditions 
herein contained.


</pre>