<pre><div class="sacc-item">
<ol type="1">
<li value="1">Subject to subsection 2, if the Contractor wishes to
make use of the Foreground Information for purposes of its
commercial exploitation or further development, the Contractor may
make a written request for a license to the client department or
agency for whom the Work is being or was performed. Such a request
should be made within thirty (30) working days following the
performance of the Work. The Contractor must give the client
department or agency an explanation as to why such a license is
required. The client department or agency must respond in writing
to the request within a reasonable period of time. If the request
is refused the response must provide an explanation for the
refusal. If the client department or agency agree to grant the
license, it will be on conditions to be negotiated between the
Contractor and the client department or agency.</li>
<li value="2">When the Work under the Contract involves the
preparation of a database or other compilation using information or
data supplied by Canada, or personal information (as this term is
defined in the <cite><a href="http://laws-lois.justice.gc.ca/eng/acts/P-21/index.html" rel="external">Privacy Act</a></cite>, <abbr title="Revised Statutes">R.S.</abbr>, 1985, <abbr title="chapter">c.</abbr> P-21)
collected by the Contractor as part of the Work, then the license
referred to in subsection 1 will be restricted to the Intellectual
Property Rights in Foreground Information that are capable of being
exploited without the use of such information or data or personal
information.</li>
</ol>
</div></pre>