<pre>The Work described herein involves submarine systems or equipment 
classified as First Level or otherwise critical to submarine safety, as 
defined in Canadian Forces Technical Order (CFTO) C-23-VIC-000/AM-001, 
Quality Assurance for Safety in Submarines - VICTORIA Class.  Manufacture, 
repair, overhaul, installation, inspection and tests for each such item 
identified in the requirement shall be documented in accordance with the 
requirements of the above mentioned CFTO.

For each such item, the Contractor shall provide a Certificate of 
Conformity [form DND 2327 or locally produced equivalent approved by the 
Quality Assurance Authority (QAA)] in accordance with this CFTO.  For 
subcontracted Work, the Contractor shall obtain that Certificate of 
Conformity from the Subcontractor.  Obtaining the said certificate from a 
Subcontractor shall not relieve the Contractor from its obligation to 
ensure compliance with the technical requirements of this Contract, nor 
shall it be construed as authorizing any liability on the part of Canada to 
the Subcontractor.

For each such item, the Certificate of Conformity, along with certified 
true copies of any deviation, waiver and all required records identified in 
the Statement of Quality Requirements (form DND 2328 or equivalent) 
attached to the Statement of Requirement, Statement of Work or Technical 
Specifications in Annex "______" to the Contract or otherwise attached to 
or forming part of the Contract, shall be completed and made available for 
review by the designated QAA prior to release of such item and associated 
documents to the Department of National Defence.  Unless otherwise directed 
by the QAA, those documents shall be attached to, or enclosed with, the 
shipment they are associated to, in a waterproof envelope. 

</pre>