<pre><strong>For all contracts:</strong>

No later than _____ days after the contract date, the Contractor must 
submit for acceptance by the Department of National Defence (DND) a Quality 
Plan prepared according to the latest issue (at contract date) of ISO 10005 
Quality management systems - Guidelines for quality plans.  The Quality 
Plan shall describe how the Contractor will conform to the specified 
quality requirements of the Contract and specify how the required quality 
activities are to be carried out, including quality assurance of 
subcontractors.  The Contractor must include a traceability matrix from the 
elements of the specified quality requirements to the corresponding 
paragraphs in the Quality Plan.

The documents referenced in the Quality Plan shall be made available when 
requested by Public Works and Government Services Canada or DND.

If the Quality Plan was submitted as part of the bidding process, the 
Contractor must review and, where appropriate, revise the submitted plan to 
reflect any changes in requirements or planning which may have occurred as 
a result of pre-contract negotiations.

Upon acceptance of the Quality Plan by DND, the Contractor must implement 
the Quality Plan.  The Contractor must make appropriate amendments to the 
Quality Plan throughout the term of the contract to reflect current and 
planned quality activities.  Amendments to the Quality Plan must be 
acceptable to DND.

<strong>For contracts requiring software design, development or maintenance:</strong>

For the design, development or maintenance of software, the Contractor 
shall interpret the requirements of ISO 9001:2000 Quality management 
systems - Requirements, according to the guidelines of the latest issue (at 
contract date) of ISO/IEC 90003 Software engineering - Guidelines for the 
application of ISO 9001:2000 to computer software.


</pre>