<h3 class="clause-heading">Remarks â€“ Recommended Use of SACC Item</h3><section class="remarks group-sacc-remarks field-group-section">
<pre>Use the following clause ONLY in Information Management or Information 
Technology contracts that come within the Treasury Board Special Authority to 
Public Works and Government Services Canada (PWGSC).  (See the Deskbook, 
Appendix A, Commodity Groupings Risk Table.)

Contracting officers should consult Legal Services for a possible adjustment to 
paragraph 2.(a) if the contract is a defence contract in which the powers under 
section 22 of the Defence Production Act are invoked.

If the contract is for telecommunications services regulated by a tariff 
established by the Canadian Radio-Television and Telecommunications Commission, 
some of these provisions will be overridden by the tariff.  (See Legal Services 
for details.)

1.	For Informatics Professional Services (IPS) contracts and call-ups against 
Standing Offers with values below the NAFTA threshold:

	The liability of contractors to the Crown for losses they cause to the Crown 
and third parties is specified in the clause below.  The contract should not 
include any insurance conditions.  The Crown will rely on the protection 
provided by the clause below.

2.	For contracts and call-ups against standing offers, including IPS 
procurements with value above the NAFTA threshold:

	Where this clause is used, the resulting contract must include an insurance 
covenant as recommended by PWGSC departmental policy, which will require at 
minimum a specified insurance limit, coverage commensurate with the type of 
contract (Commercial General Liability and / or Errors and Omissions coverage) 
and other related insurance clauses as required.  Either a Certificate of 
Insurance or an equivalent letter of self-insurance will be required for all 
contracts in which this clause is used.  Please contact PWGSC's Risk Management 
and Insurance Advisory Services, at 819-956-7379.
</pre>
</section>
<h3 class="clause-heading">Legal text for SACC item</h3><pre>1.     <strong>Liability of Canada and the Contractor to Third Parties</strong>:  Each Party 
       to this Contract agrees it is responsible to any third party for 
       injury or losses that the third party may suffer to the extent such 
       Party to this Contract caused them, where the third party has a 
       cause of action directly against that Party in respect of the injury 
       or losses.  The Parties agree that with respect to such third party 
       claims against the Contractor, the Contractor shall be responsible 
       for damages arising out of the injury or losses to the extent that 
       it caused them, including those situations where Canada may be 
       required to pay the damages caused by the Contractor as a result of 
       joint and several liability.  With respect to third party claims 
       where the third party does not have a cause of action directly 
       against the Party causing the damage, this subsection 1 does not 
       prevent or restrict in any way Canada's right to pursue and enforce 
       any rights that it may have against the Contractor.  In the event of 
       any conflict between this subsection 1 and any other subsection of 
       this clause, this subsection 1 shall prevail. 

2.     <strong>Extent of Contractor's Liability for Damages</strong>:  Regardless of the 
       basis on which Canada may be entitled to claim damages from the 
       Contractor (whether in contract, tort or any other cause of action), 
       the Contractor is liable to Canada only for the following:

       (a)    all damages and costs resulting from intellectual property 
              right infringement as set out in this Contract;

       (b)    all damages for physical injury, including death, caused by 
              the Contractor, its employees, agents or subcontractors;

       (c)    all direct damages for loss of or physical harm to tangible 
              property and real property caused by the Contractor, its 
              employees, agents or subcontractors;

       (d)    all damages for breach of confidentiality;

       (e)    all damages arising from claims for liens, attachments, 
              charges or other encumbrances or claims upon or in respect of 
              any materials, parts, work-in-process or finished work 
              furnished to, or in respect of which any payment has been 
              made by, Canada, provided that this paragraph does not apply 
              to claims of intellectual property infringement which claims 
              are covered in paragraph 2. (a) above; and,

       (f)    any other direct damages caused by the Contractor, its 
              employees, agents or subcontractors in relation to this 
              Contract, including reprocurement costs as defined below, and 
              restoration of records to the extent that the Contractor 
              fails to comply with subsection 4 below, up to an aggregate 
              maximum for this paragraph 2. (f) of the greater of <strong>______ 
              (Insert risk factor, to be determined as per the applicable 
              Commodity Groupings Risk Table) </strong>times the total estimated 
              cost, or $1,000,000.

              However, if the Contract is primarily for the provision of 
              maintenance services or for the license of software, and the 
              payments under the Contract are to be made on a recurring 
              basis such as an annual or monthly fee, then the aggregate 
              maximum for this paragraph 2. (f) will be the greater of the 
              total estimated cost times _______ <strong>(insert risk factor to be 
              determined as per the applicable Commodity Groupings Risk 
              Table)</strong> divided by the total time period of the Contract in 
              whole years, or $1,000,000. 

3.     The Contractor shall not be liable to Canada for the following:

       (a)    damages of third parties claimed against Canada except those 
              referred to in paragraphs 2. (a), (b), (c), (d) or (e) above;

       (b)    harm to Canada's records or data, except for the restoration 
              set out in subsection 4 below, and subject to the limitation 
              set out in paragraph 2. (f) above; or

       (c)    special, indirect or consequential damages (other than the 
              payments referred to in paragraph 2. (a) above, and the 
              damages referred to in paragraph 2. (b) above), even if the 
              Contractor is made aware of the potential for such damages, 
              including lost profits and lost savings.

4.     Canada is responsible for maintaining adequate backup of its records 
       and data to enable their restoration if needed for any reason.  If 
       Canada's records or data are harmed by the Contractor's or a 
       subcontractor's negligence or willful act, the Contractor is 
       responsible for restoring Canada's records and data to the same 
       state as in the last available backup copy.

5.     For the purposes of this clause:

       (a)    "total estimated cost" shall mean the dollar amount shown on 
              the first page of the Contract in the cell titled "Total 
              Estimated Cost"; 

       (b)    "reprocurement costs" shall mean all identifiable direct 
              costs incurred by Canada to reprocure the Work with another 
              contractor, including deinstallation and return of the Work 
              to the Contractor, administrative costs of selecting another 
              contractor or retendering all or part of the Contract, as 
              applicable, and any increase in the price payable by Canada 
              for the other Work having equivalent functionality, 
              performance and quality; and 
       (c)    the term "Contract" shall apply to stand-alone contracts, and 
              to each call-up, purchase order and other contractual 
              document, irrespective of its title, issued under a Standing 
              Offer or a Supply Arrangement. 

</pre>