<pre><div class="sacc-item">
<ol type="1">
<li value="1">The Contractor warrants that the certification of
Canadian Content submitted by the Contractor is accurate and
complete, and that the goods, services or both to be provided under
the Contract are in accordance with the definition contained in
clause <a href="https://buyandsell.gc.ca/policy-and-guidelines/standard-acquisition-clauses-and-conditions-manual/5/A/A3050T/active">A3050T</a>.</li>
<li value="2">The Contractor must keep proper records and
documentation relating to the origin of the goods, services or both
provided to Canada. The Contractor must not, without obtaining
before the written consent of the Contracting Authority, dispose of
any such records or documentation until the expiration of six (6)
years after final payment under the Contract, or until settlement
of all outstanding claims and disputes under the Contract,
whichever is later. All such records and documentation must at all
times during the retention period be open to audit, inspection and
examination by the representatives of Canada, who may make copies
and take extracts. The Contractor must provide all facilities for
such audits, inspections and examinations, and must furnish all
such information as the representatives of Canada may from time to
time require with respect to such records and documentation.</li>
<li value="3">Nothing in this clause must be interpreted as
limiting the rights and remedies which Canada may otherwise have
pursuant to the Contract.</li>
</ol>
</div></pre>