<pre>Organizations that are subject to the Federal Contractors Program for 
Employment Equity (FCP-EE) but that have been declared ineligible to 
receive government contracts of goods and services over the threshold for 
solicitation of bids as set out in the <em>Government Contract Regulations</em> 
(GCRs) (currently $25,000, including all applicable taxes) by the 
Department of Human Resources and Skills Development (HRSD), either as a 
result of a finding of non-compliance by HRSD, or following their voluntary 
withdrawal from the FCP-EE for a reason other than a reduction in their 
workforce, have been advised by HRSD that as a consequence of this action 
they are no longer eligible to receive any government contract over this 
threshold.  Consequently, their certificate numbers have been cancelled and 
their names have been placed on HRSD's List of Ineligible Contractors.  
Bids from such organizations will be considered non-responsive.

The Bidder certifies that it has not been declared "ineligible" by HRSD to 
receive government contracts over the GCRs threshold for solicitation of 
bids (currently $25,000, including all applicable taxes) as a result of a 
finding of non-compliance, or as a result of having voluntarily withdrawn 
from the FCP-EE for a reason other than a reduction in their workforce.

The Bidder acknowledges that the Minister shall rely on this certification 
to award the Contract.  Should a verification by the Minister disclose a 
misrepresentation on the part of the Bidder, the Minister shall have the 
right to treat any contract resulting from this bid as being in default, 
and to terminate it pursuant to the Default provisions of the Contract.

Signature of authorized representative: ___________________.


</pre>