<h3 class="clause-heading">Remarks â€“ Recommended Use of SACC Item</h3><section class="remarks group-sacc-remarks field-group-section">
 No remarks.
</section>
<h3 class="clause-heading">Legal text for SACC item</h3><pre><strong>2005   00     (2006-08-15)  General Conditions - Standing Offers - Goods or 
Services</strong>


<strong>Public Works and Government Services Canada</strong>

01     Interpretation
02     General
03     Standard Conditions and Clauses
04     Offer
05     Call-ups
06     Withdrawal
07     Revision
08     Disclosure of Information

<strong>2005   01     (2006-08-15)  Interpretation</strong>

In the Standing Offer, unless the context otherwise requires:

"Call-up" means an order issued under the authority of the duly authorized 
Identified User against a particular standing offer. Communication of a 
call-up against a standing offer to the Offeror constitutes acceptance of 
its offer and results in the creation of a contract between Her Majesty the 
Queen in right of Canada  and the Offeror for the goods, services or both 
described in the Call-up;

"Canada", "Crown", "Her Majesty" or "the Government" means Her Majesty the 
Queen in right of Canada as represented by the Minister of Public Works and 
Government Services and any other person duly authorized to act on behalf 
of that Minister.

"Identified User" means a person or entity identified in the Standing Offer 
and authorized by the Standing Offer Authority to make Call-ups against the 
Standing Offer; 

"Offeror" means the person or entity whose name appears on the signature 
page of the Standing Offer and who offers to provide goods, services or 
both to Canada under the Standing Offer;

"Standing Offer" means the written offer from the Offeror, these general 
conditions, any referenced conditions and clauses, and any other document 
specified or referred to as forming part of the Standing Offer;

"Standing Offer Authority" means the person designated as such in the 
Standing Offer, or by notice to the Offeror, to act as the representative 
of Canada in the management of the Standing Offer.  The Standing Offer 
Authority will issue a document called "Standing Offer and Call-up 
Authority" (SOCA) to authorize Identified Users to make Call-ups against 
the Standing Offer and to notify the Offeror that authority to make 
Call-ups against the Standing Offer has been given to Identified Users.

<strong>2005   02     (2006-08-15)   General</strong>

The Offeror acknowledges that a standing offer is not a contract and that 
the issuance of a Standing Offer and Call-up Authority does not oblige or 
commit Canada to procure or contract for any goods, services or both listed 
in the Standing Offer.  The Offeror understands and agrees that Canada has 
the right to procure the goods, services or both specified in the Standing 
Offer by means of any other contract, standing offer or contracting method.

<strong>2005   03     (2006-08-15)  Standard Conditions and Clauses</strong>

Pursuant to the <em>Department of Public Works and Government Services Act</em>, S.C. 
1996, c.16, the clauses and conditions identified in the Standing Offer by 
title, number and date are incorporated by reference into the Standing 
Offer and form part of any contract resulting from the Standing Offer as 
though expressly set out in the Standing Offer and resulting Contract.

<strong>2005   04     (2006-08-15)  Offer</strong>

1.     The Offeror offers to provide and deliver to Canada the goods, 
       services or both described in the Standing Offer, in accordance with 
       the pricing set out in the Standing Offer as and when the Identified 
       User may request such goods, services or both, in accordance with 
       the conditions listed at paragraph 2 below. 
 
2.     The Offeror understands and agrees that:

       (a)    a Call-up against the Standing Offer will form a contract 
              only for those goods, services, or both, which have been 
              called-up, provided that such Call-up is made in accordance 
              with the provisions of the Standing Offer;

       (b)    Canada's liability is limited to that which arises from 
              Call-ups against the Standing Offer made within the period 
              specified in the Standing Offer;

       (c)    Canada may require that the purchase of goods, services or 
              both listed in the Standing Offer be made using an electronic 
              purchasing tool.  Before doing so, Canada will provide the 
              Offeror at least three (3) months' notice regarding the 
              requirements related to the electronic purchasing tool;

       (d)    the Standing Offer cannot be assigned or transferred in whole 
              or in part;

       the Standing Offer may be set aside by Canada at any time.

<strong>2005   05     (2006-08-15)   Call-ups</strong><strong></strong>

If applicable, Designated Users will use the form specified in the Standing 
Offer to order goods, services or both. Goods, services or both may also be 
ordered by other methods such as telephone, facsimile or electronic means.  
With the exception of call-ups paid for with a Government of Canada 
acquisition card (credit card), call-ups made by telephone must be 
confirmed in writing on the document specified in the Standing Offer.

Call-ups against the Standing Offer paid for with the Government of Canada 
acquisition card (credit card) at point of sale must be accorded the same 
prices and terms and conditions as any other Call-up.

<strong>2005   06     (2006-08-15)   Withdrawal</strong><strong></strong>

In the event that the Offeror wishes to withdraw the Standing Offer after 
authority to call-up against the Standing Offer has been given, the Offeror 
must provide no less than thirty (30) days' written notice to the Standing 
Offer Authority, unless otherwise indicated in the Standing Offer.  The 
thirty (30) days' period will start upon receipt of the notification by the 
Standing Offer Authority and the withdrawal will be effective at the expiry 
of that period.  The Offeror must fulfill any and all Call-ups which are 
made before the expiry of that period.

<strong>2005   07     (2006-08-15)   Revision</strong><strong></strong>

The period of the Standing Offer may only be extended, or its usage 
increased, by the Standing Offer Authority issuing a revision to the 
Standing Offer in writing.

<strong>2005   08     (2006-08-15)   Disclosure of Information</strong><strong></strong>

The Offeror agrees to the disclosure of its standing offer unit prices or 
rates by Canada, and further agrees that it will have no right to claim 
against Canada, the Identified User, their employees, agents or servants, 
or any of them, in relation to such disclosure.

</pre>