<pre>No later than _____ days after the effective date of the Contract, the 
Contractor must submit for acceptance by the Department of National Defence 
(DND) a Quality Plan prepared according to the latest issue (at contract 
date) of ISO 10005 Quality management systems - Guidelines, for quality 
plans.  The Quality Plan must describe how the Contractor will conform to 
the specified quality requirements of the Contract and specify how the 
required quality activities are to be carried out, including quality 
assurance of subcontractors.  The Contractor must include a traceability 
matrix from the elements of the specified quality requirements to the 
corresponding paragraphs in the Quality Plan.

The documents referenced in the Quality Plan must be made available when 
requested by Public Works and Government Services Canada or DND.

If the Quality Plan was submitted as part of the bidding process, the 
Contractor must review and, where appropriate, revise the submitted plan to 
reflect any changes in requirements or planning which may have occurred as 
a result of pre-contract negotiations.

Upon acceptance of the Quality Plan by DND, the Contractor must implement 
the Quality Plan.  The Contractor must make appropriate amendments to the 
Quality Plan throughout the term of the contract to reflect current and 
planned quality activities.  Amendments to the Quality Plan must be 
acceptable to DND.

If the Contract includes the option for software design, development or 
maintenance of software, the Contractor must interpret the requirements of 
ISO 9001:2000 Quality management systems - Requirements, according to the 
guidelines of the latest issue (at contract date) of ISO/IEC 90003 Software 
engineering - Guidelines for the application of ISO 9001:2000, to computer 
software.


</pre>