<button class="print-clause btn btn-default mrgn-tp-sm mrgn-rght-sm pull-right"><span class="glyphicon glyphicon-print"></span><span class="wb-inv">Print</span></button><div>
<h3 class="clause-heading">Remarks â€“ Recommended Use of SACC Item</h3><section class="remarks group-sacc-remarks field-group-section">
 No remarks.
</section>
<h3 class="clause-heading">Legal text for SACC item</h3><pre><strong>A. Instructions</strong>

1.     To submit your offer, return signed original of the bid solicitation 
document, duly completed.  Ensure that your firm's name, Department of 
Supply and Services (DSS) file number, and solicitation closing date are 
clearly visible.  Electronically transmitted responses (telex, facsimile 
and commercial telegram) will also be considered (except those for the 
Science Branch) provided they contain DSS file number, solicitation closing 
time and date and all requested pricing details, and are subsequently 
confirmed as soon as possible by a duly completed and signed copy of the 
bid.

2.     Offers may be accepted in whole or in part and may be accepted on a 
lowest aggregate price basis.  The lowest or any offer will not necessarily 
be accepted.  In case of error in the extension of prices, the unit price 
will govern.  Offers will remain open for acceptance for a period of not 
less than sixty (60) days from closing date of this solicitation, unless 
otherwise indicated herein by DSS.

3.     Municipal taxes are not applicable; for provincial taxes, see B.1 - 
Conditions below.

Unless otherwise specified by the Crown, all prices quoted shall be net 
prices in Canadian funds including Canadian customs duties and excise taxes, 
and are to be FOB, including all delivery charges to destination(s) as 
indicated.  The amount of the goods and services tax shall be shown as a 
separate item. 

4.     All late offers will be returned unopened.  Offers which were mailed 
at least forty-eight (48) hours prior to the closing time and date 
(ninety-six [96] hours outside Canada) and are delayed in the mail, will be 
considered, provided evidence of timely mailing is supported by 
certification of registered mail, special delivery or by postage 
cancellation. (Note: Postage meter imprints are not acceptable as proof of 
timely mailing.)

<strong>B. Conditions</strong><strong></strong>

1.     a)     Excluding legislated exceptions (see Item d) below), 
              Identified Users are not required to pay any ad valorem sales 
              tax levied by the province in which the taxable goods or 
              services are delivered.  This exemption has been provided to 
              Identified Users under the authority of one of the following:

              i)     Provincial Sales Tax Exemption Licence Numbers, for 
                     the provinces of:
                     
                     Newfoundland                32243-0-09
                     Prince Edward Island        OP-10000-250
                     Nova Scotia                 U84-00-03172-3
                     Ontario                            11708174G
                     Manitoba                    390-516-0
                     British Columbia            005521
              
              ii)    An Exemption Certification, for Quebec, New Brunswick, 
                     Saskatchewan, the Yukon Territory, and the Northwest 
                     Territories, which certifies that the property and/or 
                     services ordered/purchased hereby are for the use of, 
                     and are being purchased by the federal government with 
                     Crown funds, and are therefore not subject to 
                     provincial/territorial sales and consumption taxes.

       b)     Currently, in Alberta, Saskatchewan, the Yukon Territory, and 
              the Northwest Territories, sales taxes do not apply to goods 
              or services delivered to the federal government.

       c)     The Contractor is not exempt from paying provincial sales tax 
              under the above Exemption Licence Numbers or Exemption 
              Certification.  The Contractor is required to pay provincial 
              sales tax on taxable goods or services used or consumed in 
              the performance of the contract (as per appropriate 
              provincial legislation), including material incorporated into 
              real property.

       d)     <strong>Exceptions</strong> 
              The following exceptions are provided as examples and may not 
              represent a complete list of all exceptions under the law.

              i)     tobacco products subject to tobacco taxes

              ii)    petroleum products subject to gasoline and motive fuel 
                     taxes

              iii)   vehicle registration fees

              iv)    amusement/admission (Nova Scotia and New Brunswick)

              v)     insurance premiums (Quebec) 

              vi)    tires/batteries subject to environmental levies 
                     (British Columbia)

              vii)   transient living accommodation subject to hotel room 
                     taxes (Prince Edward Island and British Columbia)

2.     Material will be new production of current manufacture conforming to 
the current issue of the specifications, drawings or part numbers as 
applicable, unless otherwise indicated herein.

3.     The Contractor shall comply with all labour and health conditions 
applicable to the work.

4.     If transportation charges are payable by Her Majesty under the terms 
of this contract, shipments are to be made by the most direct and 
economical means consistent with normal shipping practice, unless otherwise 
directed (as in the case when transportation costs are part of the unit 
price).  They are to be shown as a separate item on the invoice.

5.     Valuation: The federal government's policy of underwriting its own 
risks precludes payment of any excess valuation and/or transportation 
charges beyond the specified FOB point (the point at which title of goods 
passed to the federal government).  Goods will be covered to the carrier's 
maximum liability and value will be declared only when additional costs 
will not be incurred.

6.     Goods shipped into Canada from another country are to be consigned 
to destination, IN BOND, unless otherwise directed.

7.     The transportation bill of lading must accompany the original 
invoice, except for "collect" shipments (if and when allowed), in which 
event it shall accompany the shipment; in addition, a packing slip must 
accompany each shipment, showing item, quantity, part or reference numbers, 
description of supplies and contract reference numbers.  If the supplies 
have been inspected at the Contractor's plant, the signed inspection 
voucher must be attached to the packing slip normally enclosed in the 
packing note envelope.

8.     Invoices shall be submitted in the name of the Contractor and shall 
not be submitted prior to the shipment of supplies.  They must show the 
name and address of the consignee, together with date, method of shipment, 
terms of payment, the case numbers if applicable, item, quantity,  unit of 
issue, unit price, additional charges if applicable, and the goods and 
services tax if applicable, part or reference numbers, description of 
supplies as shown in this contract, contract number, requisition number and 
financial code(s).   Separate invoices must be submitted for each shipment 
and must apply to one contract only.  Each invoice must indicate whether it 
covers partial or final shipment.

9.     The goods/services are subject to inspection and acceptance by 
   consignee at destination, unless otherwise indicated herein.
</pre>
</div>