<button class="print-clause btn btn-default mrgn-tp-sm mrgn-rght-sm pull-right"><span class="glyphicon glyphicon-print"></span><span class="wb-inv">Print</span></button><div>
<h3 class="clause-heading">Remarks â€“ Recommended Use of SACC Item</h3><section class="remarks group-sacc-remarks field-group-section">
 No remarks.
</section>
<h3 class="clause-heading">Legal text for SACC item</h3><pre><strong>A. INSTRUCTIONS (APPLICABLE TO BID SOLICITATION)</strong><strong></strong>


<strong>1.     Submission of Bids</strong>

(1)    It is the bidder's responsibility to:

       (a)    return a signed original of the bid solicitation document, 
              duly completed, IN THE FORMAT REQUESTED;

       (b)    direct its bid ONLY to the bid receiving address specified;

       (c)    ensure that the bidder's name, the bid solicitation reference 
              number, and bid solicitation closing date and time are 
              clearly visible;  

       (d)    provide a comprehensive and sufficiently detailed bid, 
              including all requested pricing details, that will permit a 
              complete evaluation in accordance with the criteria set out 
              in the bid solicitation.

<strong>       TIMELY RECEIPT AND CORRECT DIRECTION OF BIDS IS THE SOLE 
       RESPONSIBILITY OF THE BIDDER.  THE DEPARTMENT OF SUPPLY AND SERVICES 
       WILL NOT ASSUME<strong><strong> OR </strong></strong>HAVE TRANSFERRED TO IT THOSE RESPONSIBILITIES.</strong>

(2)    Bids may be accepted in whole or in part.  The lowest or any bid 
       will not necessarily be accepted.  In the case of error in the 
       extension of prices, the unit price will govern.  Canada may enter 
       into contract without negotiation.

(3)    Bids will remain open for acceptance for a period of not less than 
       sixty (60) days from the closing date of the bid solicitation, 
       unless otherwise indicated therein. 


<strong>2.     Late Bids</strong>

It is DSS policy to return, unopened, bids received after the stipulated 
bid solicitation closing date and time, unless they qualify as a delayed 
bid as described below.


<strong>3.     Delayed Bids</strong>

(1)    A bid received after the closing date and time but before the 
       contract award date may be considered, provided the delay can be 
       proven to have been due solely to a delay in delivery that can be 
       attributed to the Canada Post Corporation (CPC) (or national 
       equivalent of a foreign country) or to incorrect handling by DSS.  
       The only pieces of evidence relating to a delay in the CPC system 
       that are acceptable to DSS are:

       (a)    a CPC cancellation date stamp,

       (b)    a CPC Priority Courier Bill of Lading, and

       (c)    a CPC Xpresspost Label

       that clearly indicate that the bid was mailed prior to the bid 
       closing date.

       Example: If the bid closing date was May 15, 1993, then the CPC 
       cancellation date stamp should read no later than May 14, 1993, to 
       be accepted.

(2)    Please request the postal employee to date-stamp your envelope. 
(3)    For bids transmitted by telex, facsimile or commercial telegram, 
       only the date and the time of receipt recorded by the Department of 
       Supply and Services at the numbers stated below will be accepted as 
       evidence of a delayed bid.


<strong>4.     Postage Meters</strong>

Postage meter imprints, whether imprinted by the supplier, the Canada Post 
Corporation or the postal authority outside Canada, are not acceptable as 
proof of timely mailing.  It should be noted that CPC does not normally 
apply a cancellation date stamp to metered mail; this is usually done only 
when postage stamps are used.


<strong>5.     Responses Transmitted by Telex, Facsimile or Commercial Telegram </strong>

(1)    If you are in doubt that your bid will be received on time at the 
       specific location designated for the receipt of the bid, you may use 
       a telex, a facsimile or a commercial telegram, unless otherwise 
       instructed in the bid solicitation package.

       NOTE:  Due to the volume of technical material required for some 
              bids, certain solicitation documents may specify that 
              submissions by telex, facsimile or commercial telegram are 
              not acceptable (e.g. science solicitations).

(2)    Unless otherwise instructed in the bid solicitation, the only 
       acceptable telex and/or facsimile numbers for responses to bid 
       solicitations issued by DSS headquarters sectors are:

       Telex Number:        DSS Hull   053-3703

       Facsimile Number:    (819) 997-9776
       
(3)    Telex and facsimile numbers for responses to bid solicitations 
       issued by DSS regional offices are identified on the front page of 
       the bid solicitation document.

(4)    Bids submitted by telex, facsimile or commercial telegram will 
       constitute your formal bid and must contain:

       (a)    the bid reference number;

       (b)    the closing date and time;

       (c)    sufficient data to allow evaluation, such as unit prices, 
              country of currency in the event that the bid is submitted in 
              a foreign currency, sales tax, duty, technical data (where 
              applicable) and any deviation(s) from the bid solicitation 
              document.

(5)    For responses transmitted by telex, facsimile or commercial telegram, 
       written confirmation is required within a reasonable period of time 
       after bid closing, unless an exact copy of the bid was sent by 
       facsimile.  All documents confirming bids should bear the word "
       CONFIRMATION."

(6)    Only incorrect handling by DSS will excuse the delay of responses 
       transmitted by telex, facsimile or commercial telegram.  Misrouting, 
       traffic volume, weather disturbances, or any other causes for the 
       late receipt of such responses are not acceptable.


<strong>6.     Customs Clearance</strong>

It is the responsibility of the bidder to allow sufficient time to obtain 
customs clearance, where required, before the scheduled bid closing date 
and time.  Delays related to the obtaining of customs clearance cannot be 
construed as "undue delay in the mail" and will not be accepted under the 
Late Bids Policy.


<strong>7.     Further Information</strong>

(1)    For further information, please contact the Contracting Authority 
       identified on page one of the bid solicitation.

(2)    For bid solicitations issued out of DSS Headquarters, enquiries 
       concerning receipt of bids may be addressed to the Bid Receiving 
       Unit, Statistical Information and Data Management Directorate, 
       telephone (819) 956-3370.


<strong>B.     CONDITIONS (APPLICABLE TO BID SOLICITATION AND RESULTING CONTRACT)</strong> 


<strong>1.     Municipal Taxes</strong>

Municipal taxes are not applicable.


<strong>2.     Provincial Taxes</strong>

(1)    Excluding legislated exceptions (see subsection (4) below), federal 
       government departments and agencies are not required to pay any ad 
       valorem sales tax levied by the province in which the taxable goods 
       or services are delivered.  This exemption has been provided to 
       federal government departments and agencies under the authority of 
       one of the following:

       (a)    Provincial Sales Tax Exemption Licence Numbers, for the 
              provinces of:

              Newfoundland         32243-0-09
              Prince Edward Island OP-10000-250
              Nova Scotia          U84-00-03172-3
              Ontario                     11708174G
              Manitoba             390-516-0
              British Columbia     005521

       (b)    An Exemption Certification, for Quebec, New Brunswick, 
              Saskatchewan, the Yukon Territory, and the Northwest 
              Territories, which certifies that the property and/or 
              services ordered/purchased hereby are for the use of, and are 
              being purchased by the federal government with Crown funds, 
              and are therefore not subject to provincial/territorial sales 
              and consumption taxes.

(2)    Currently, in Alberta, Saskatchewan, the Yukon Territory, and the 
       Northwest Territories, provincial sales taxes do not apply to goods 
       or services delivered to the federal government.

(3)    The Contractor is not exempt from paying provincial sales tax under 
       the above Exemption Licence Numbers or Exemption Certification.  The 
       Contractor is required to pay provincial sales tax on taxable goods 
       or services used or consumed in the performance of the contract (as 
       per appropriate provincial legislation), including material 
       incorporated into real property.

(4)    Exceptions

       The following exceptions are provided as examples and may not 
       represent a complete list of all exceptions under the law.
 
       (a)    tobacco products subject to tobacco taxes

       (b)    petroleum products subject to gasoline and motive fuel taxes

       (c)    vehicle registration fees

       (d)    amusement/admission (Nova Scotia and New Brunswick)

       (e)    insurance premiums (Quebec) 

       (f)    tires/batteries subject to environmental levies (British 
              Columbia and Alberta)

       (g)    transient living accommodation subject to hotel room taxes 
              (Prince Edward Island and British Columbia)


<strong>3.     Condition of Material</strong>

Material will be new production of current manufacture conforming to the 
current issue of the specifications, drawings or part numbers as applicable, 
unless otherwise indicated in the contractual document.


<strong>4.     Labour and Health Conditions</strong><strong></strong>

The Contractor shall comply with all labour and health conditions 
applicable to the work.


<strong>5.     Transportation Charges</strong>

If transportation charges are payable by Canada under the terms of the 
Contract, shipments are to be made by the most direct and economical means 
consistent with normal shipping practice, unless otherwise directed (as in 
the case when transportation costs are part of the unit price).  They are 
to be shown as a separate item on the invoice.


<strong>6.     Valuation</strong><strong></strong>

The federal government's policy of underwriting its own risks precludes 
payment of any excess valuation and/or transportation charges beyond the 
specified FOB point (the point at which title of goods passes to the 
federal government).  Goods will be covered to the carrier's maximum 
liability and value will be declared only when additional costs will not be 
incurred.


<strong>7.     Foreign Shipments</strong><strong></strong>

Goods shipped into Canada from another country are to be consigned to 
destination, IN BOND, unless otherwise directed.


<strong>8.     Bill of Lading</strong><strong></strong>

The transportation bill of lading must accompany the original invoice, 
except for "collect" shipments (if and when stipulated), in which event it 
shall accompany the shipment; in addition, a packing slip must accompany 
each shipment, showing item, quantity, part or reference numbers, 
description of supplies and contract reference numbers.  If the supplies 
have been inspected at the Contractor's plant, the signed inspection 
voucher must be attached to the packing slip normally enclosed in the 
packing note envelope. 

<strong>9.     Invoice Submission</strong>

Invoices shall be submitted in the name of the Contractor and shall not be 
submitted prior to the delivery of supplies or the performance of the 
services.  They must show the name and address of the consignee, together 
with date, method of shipment, the case numbers if applicable, item, 
quantity, unit of issue, unit price, additional charges if applicable, and 
the goods and services tax if applicable, part or reference numbers, 
description of supplies as shown in the contract, contract number, 
requisition number and financial code(s).  Separate invoices must be 
submitted for each shipment and must apply to one contract only.  Each 
invoice must indicate whether it covers partial or final shipment.


<strong>10.    Inspection and Acceptance</strong><strong></strong>

The goods/services are subject to inspection and acceptance by consignee at 
destination, unless otherwise indicated in the contractual document.


<strong>11.    Standard Clauses, Conditions and Instruction Sets</strong>

Any standard clause, and any condition or instruction set, used or 
   referenced in a bid solicitation or contract may be updated from time to 
   time.  When this happens, the version used in an already-issued document 
   will remain in effect in that document, unless the updated version is 
   legally incorporated.
</pre>
</div>